1. Cureus. 2025 Feb 22;17(2):e79442. doi: 10.7759/cureus.79442. eCollection 2025 
Feb.

Possible Resolution of Food Allergies Following Tocilizumab-Induced Remission of 
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis.

Magen I(1), Biton R(2), Khateeb M(2), Magen E(1).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Assuta Ashdod University Medical Center, Ashdod, ISR.
(2)Internal Medicine, Assuta Ashdod University Medical Center, Ashdod, ISR.

This case report describes a unique instance of a four-year-old Ashkenazi Jewish 
male with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) and severe IgE-mediated 
food allergies who achieved complete remission of both conditions following 
treatment with tocilizumab, an IL-6 receptor antagonist. The patient initially 
presented with anaphylactic reactions to peanuts, eggs, and cow's milk, 
confirmed by positive skin prick tests and elevated specific IgE (sIgE) levels. 
Systemic JIA symptoms, including daily fever spikes, evanescent rash, and 
polyarticular arthritis, developed shortly thereafter. After inadequate response 
to standard therapies, tocilizumab was initiated, resulting in complete 
remission of JIA symptoms and unexpected resolution of food allergies. Repeat 
allergological evaluations, including skin prick tests, sIgE levels, and 
controlled oral food challenges, confirmed sustained tolerance to previously 
allergenic foods. The dual remission observed in this case suggests that 
interleukin-6 (IL-6) inhibition may modulate shared immunological pathways 
underlying autoimmune and allergic diseases. IL-6 is a key cytokine in both 
conditions, promoting Th17-mediated inflammation in JIA and Th2-mediated 
allergic responses, including IgE production and mast cell activation. While the 
spontaneous resolution of food allergies, particularly to milk and eggs, is 
well-documented in pediatric populations, the resolution of peanut allergy, in 
this case, is highly unusual and temporally associated with tocilizumab 
treatment. This case raises the possibility that IL-6 inhibition may play a role 
in modulating autoimmune and allergic responses, warranting further 
investigation into the interplay between these pathways.

Copyright © 2025, Magen et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.79442
PMCID: PMC11931585
PMID: 40130131

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all 
authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared 
that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted 
work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no 
financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


2. JAMA. 2024 Feb 13;331(6):510-521. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.26857.

Management of Food Allergies and Food-Related Anaphylaxis.

Iglesia EGA(1), Kwan M(2), Virkud YV(3), Iweala OI(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy, Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(2)Thurston Arthritis Research Center, Division of Rheumatology, Allergy, and 
Immunology, Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina School of 
Medicine, Chapel Hill.
(3)University of North Carolina Food Allergy Initiative, Division of Allergy and 
Immunology, Department of Pediatrics, University of North Carolina School of 
Medicine, Chapel Hill.

IMPORTANCE: An estimated 7.6% of children and 10.8% of adults have IgE-mediated 
food-protein allergies in the US. IgE-mediated food allergies may cause 
anaphylaxis and death. A delayed, IgE-mediated allergic response to the 
food-carbohydrate galactose-α-1,3-galactose (alpha-gal) in mammalian meat 
affects an estimated 96 000 to 450 000 individuals in the US and is currently a 
leading cause of food-related anaphylaxis in adults.
OBSERVATIONS: In the US, 9 foods account for more than 90% of IgE-mediated food 
allergies-crustacean shellfish, dairy, peanut, tree nuts, fin fish, egg, wheat, 
soy, and sesame. Peanut is the leading food-related cause of fatal and 
near-fatal anaphylaxis in the US, followed by tree nuts and shellfish. The 
fatality rate from anaphylaxis due to food in the US is estimated to be 0.04 per 
million per year. Alpha-gal syndrome, which is associated with tick bites, is a 
rising cause of IgE-mediated food anaphylaxis. The seroprevalence of 
sensitization to alpha-gal ranges from 20% to 31% in the southeastern US. 
Self-injectable epinephrine is the first-line treatment for food-related 
anaphylaxis. The cornerstone of IgE-food allergy management is avoidance of the 
culprit food allergen. There are emerging immunotherapies to desensitize to one 
or more foods, with one current US Food and Drug Administration-approved oral 
immunotherapy product for treatment of peanut allergy.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: IgE-mediated food allergies, including delayed 
IgE-mediated allergic responses to red meat in alpha-gal syndrome, are common in 
the US, and may cause anaphylaxis and rarely, death. IgE-mediated anaphylaxis to 
food requires prompt treatment with epinephrine injection. Both food-protein 
allergy and alpha-gal syndrome management require avoiding allergenic foods, 
whereas alpha-gal syndrome also requires avoiding tick bites.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2023.26857
PMCID: PMC11060332
PMID: 38349368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Iglesia 
reported receiving grants from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation during the 
conduct of the study. Dr Kwan reported receiving grants from Pfizer QI outside 
the submitted work. Dr Iweala reported serving as on the advisory boards of 
Blueprint Medicines and Novartis and receiving consulting fees from Allakos Inc 
outside the submitted work; and was a coauthor of an article sponsored by 
Genentech. No other disclosures were reported.


3. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions (Archived).

Justiz Vaillant AA(1), Vashisht R, Zito PM(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2025 
Jan–.
2023 May 29.

Author information:
(1)University of the West Indies
(2)University of Miami; Miller School of Medicine

Hypersensitivity reactions (HR) are immune responses that are exaggerated or 
inappropriate against an antigen or allergen. Coombs and Gell classified 
hypersensitivity reactions into four forms. Type I, type II, and type III 
hypersensitivity reactions are known as immediate hypersensitivity reactions 
(IHR) because they occur within 24 hours. Antibodies including IgE, IgM, and IgG 
mediate them. Type I or Anaphylactic Response The anaphylactic response is 
mediated by IgE antibodies that are produced by the immune system in response to 
environmental proteins (allergens) such as pollens, animal danders, or dust 
mites. These antibodies (IgE) bind to mast cells and basophils, which contain 
histamine granules that are released in the reaction and cause inflammation. 
Type I hypersensitivity reactions can be seen in bronchial asthma, allergic 
rhinitis, allergic dermatitis, food allergy, allergic conjunctivitis, and 
anaphylactic shock. Anaphylaxis Anaphylaxis is a medical emergency as it can 
lead to acute, life-threatening respiratory failure. It is an IgE-mediated 
process. It is the most severe form of an allergic reaction, where mast cells 
suddenly release a large amount of histamine and later on leukotrienes. In 
severe cases intense bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, cyanosis, hypotension, and 
shock are present.  Allergic Bronchial Asthma Allergic bronchial asthma is an 
atopic disease, characterized by bronchospasm. It may also be a chronic 
inflammatory disease. In its etiology, environmental factors along with a 
genetic background play an important role. The diagnosis is dependent on history 
and examination. In allergic bronchial asthma, IgE is elevated, and sputum 
eosinophilia is common. Epidemiologically, a positive skin prick test or 
specific IgE are risk factors for asthma. Allergic Rhinitis Allergic rhinitis is 
another atopic disease where histamine and leukotrienes are responsible for 
rhinorrhea, sneezing, and nasal obstruction. Allergens are similar to those 
found in bronchial asthma. Nasal polyps may be seen in chronic rhinitis. 
Allergic Conjunctivitis Allergic conjunctivitis presents with rhinitis and is 
IgE-mediated. Itching and eye problems including watering, redness, and swelling 
always occur. Food Allergy Clinicians must differentiate food allergy 
(IgE-mediated) from food intolerance that can be a cause for a variety of 
etiologies including malabsorption and celiac disease. It is more frequent in 
children as seen in cow's milk allergy. Food allergy symptoms mostly affect the 
respiratory tract, the skin, and the gut. Skin prick tests are helpful to test 
for food allergens that can trigger severe reactions, e.g., peanuts, eggs, fish, 
and milk. Atopic Eczema Atopic eczema is an IgE-mediated disease that affects 
the skin and has an immunopathogenesis very similar to that of allergic asthma 
and allergic rhinitis, which are present in more than half of these patients. 
Radioallergosorbent (RAST) may reveal the specificity of the IgE antibody 
involved but has little help in management. Drug Allergy Drugs may cause 
allergic reactions by any mechanism of hypersensitivity. For example, penicillin 
may cause anaphylaxis, which is IgE-mediated but most responses are trivial. 
Penicillin cross-reacts with other semisynthetic penicillins including 
monobactams and carbapenems and may also cross-react with other antibiotics such 
as cephalosporins.   Type II or Cytotoxic-Mediated Response IgG and IgM mediate 
cytotoxic-mediated responses against cell surface and extracellular matrix 
proteins. The immunoglobulins involved in this type of reaction damage cells by 
activating the complement system or by phagocytosis. Type 
II hypersensitivity reactions can be seen in immune thrombocytopenia, autoimmune 
hemolytic anemia, and autoimmune neutropenia. Immune Thrombocytopenia (ITP) ITP 
is an autoimmune disorder that occurs at any age. Phagocytes destroy sensitized 
platelets in the peripheral blood. Clinically, it manifests as thrombocytopenia 
with shortened platelet survival and increased marrow megakaryocytes. Sudden 
onset of petechiae and bleeding from the gums, nose, bowel, and urinary tract 
occurs. Bleeding can accompany infections, drug reactions, malignancy, and other 
autoimmune disorders such as thyroid disease and SLE. Autoimmune Hemolytic 
anemia (AIHA) There are two types of immune hemolytic anemia: IgG-mediated (warm 
AIHA) and IgM-mediated (cold AIHA). The warm type may be idiopathic autoimmune 
or secondary to other diseases such as malignancy affecting the lymphoid 
tissues. The cold type may be idiopathic or secondary to infections such as 
Epstein-Barr virus. The primary clinical sign of the two is jaundice. The 
laboratory diagnosis is made by a positive Coombs test, which identifies 
immunoglobulins and C3 on red blood cells. Autoimmune Neutropenia Autoimmune 
neutropenia may be present with bacterial and fungal infections, or it may occur 
alone or with autoimmune diseases (systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid 
arthritis, autoimmune hepatitis), infections and lymphoma. Bone marrow 
examination is needed if neutropenia is severe. For associated autoimmune 
disorders, an autoimmune antibody panel is necessary (ANA, ENA, and dsDNA). 
Hemolytic Disease of the Fetus and the Newborn (erythroblastosis fetalis) The 
maternal immune system suffers an initial sensitization to the fetal Rh+ red 
blood cells during birth when the placenta tears away. The first child escapes 
the disease but the mother, now sensitized, will be capable of causing a 
hemolytic reaction against a second Rh+ fetus, which develops anemia and 
jaundice once the maternal IgG crosses the placenta. Myasthenia Gravis 
Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder caused by antibodies to 
post-synaptic acetylcholine receptors that interfere with neuromuscular 
transmission. It is characterized by extreme muscular fatigue, double vision, 
bilateral ptosis, deconjugate eye movements, difficulty swallowing, and weakness 
in the upper arms. Babies born to mothers with myasthenia gravis can have 
transient muscle weakness due to pathogenic IgG antibodies that cross the 
placenta. Goodpasture Syndrome  Goodpasture syndrome is a type II 
hypersensitivity reaction characterized by the presence of nephritis in 
association with lung hemorrhage. In most patients, it is caused by 
cross-reactive autoantigens that are present in the basement membranes of the 
lung and kidney. A number of patients with this problem exhibit antibodies to 
collagen type IV, which is an important component of basement membranes. 
Pemphigus Pemphigus causes a severe blistering disease that affects the skin and 
mucous membranes. The sera of patients with pemphigus have antibodies against 
desmoglein-1 and desmoglein-3, which are components of desmosomes, which form 
junctions between epidermal cells. Pemphigus is strongly linked to HLA-DR4 
(DRB1*0402), which is a molecule that presents one of the autoantigens involved 
in the immunopathogenesis of this disease (desmoglein-3). Type III or 
Immunocomplex Reactions These are also mediated by IgM and IgG antibodies that 
react with soluble antigens forming antigen-antibody complexes. The complement 
system becomes activated and releases chemotactic agents that attract 
neutrophils and cause inflammation and tissue damage as seen in vasculitis and 
glomerulonephritis. Type III hypersensitivity reactions can classically be seen 
in serum sickness and Arthus reaction. Serum Sickness Serum sickness can be 
induced with massive injections of a foreign antigen. Circulating immune 
complexes infiltrate the blood vessel walls and tissues, causing an increased 
vascular permeability and leading to inflammatory processes such as vasculitis 
and arthritis. It was a complication of anti-serum prepared in animals to which 
some individuals produced antibodies to the foreign protein. It was also 
experienced in the treatment with antibiotics such as penicillin. Arthus 
Reaction Arthus reaction is a local reaction seen when a small quantity of 
antigens is injected into the skin repeatedly until detectable levels of 
antibodies (IgG) are present. If the same antigen is inoculated, immune 
complexes develop at the mentioned local site and in the endothelium of small 
vessels. This reaction is characterized by the presence of marked edema and 
hemorrhage, depending on the administered dose of the foreign antigen.

Copyright © 2025, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30020687

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Angel Justiz Vaillant declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Rishik 
Vashisht declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Patrick Zito declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.


4. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2022 Feb 4;67(5):27-37. doi: 
10.14715/cmb/2021.67.5.4.

Contemporary uses of old folks: the immunomodulatory and toxic potential of 
fenbufen.

Akhtar MF(1), Nisa MU(1), Saleem A(2), Hamid I(3), Alsharif KF(4), Abdel-Daim 
MM(5), Rahman MH(6), Shah M(7), Sohail K(8), Javaid Z(9).

Author information:
(1)Riphah Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Riphah International University, 
Lahore Campus, Lahore, Pakistan. furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Government 
College University Faisalabad, Faisalabad, Pakistan. 
furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(3)Cadson College of Pharmacy, University of the Punjab, Kharian, Pakistan. 
furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Taif University, P.O. Box 11099, Taif 21944, Saudi Arabia. 
furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Pharmacy Program, Batterjee Medical 
College, P.O. Box 6231 Jeddah 21442, Saudi Arabia. furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Southeast University, Banani, Dhaka-1213, Bangladesh. 
furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Botany, Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan, Mardan 23200, 
Pakistan. furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(8)Akson College of Health Sciences, Mirpur University of Science and 
Technology, Mirpur, AJK, Pakistan. furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.
(9)Department of Pharmacy, Mirpur University of Science and Technology, Mirpur, 
AJK, Pakistan. furqan.pharmacist@gmail.com.

Fenbfen is used for pain, pyrexia and in the management of osteoarthritis, 
rheumatoid arthritis and other musculoskeletal disorders. The present research 
was planned to examine the immunomodulatory activity of fenbufen in different 
models of cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and humoral immunity (HI). The CMI was 
evaluated by delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and cyclophosphamide-induced 
neutropenia assays while HI was appraised by hemagglutination (HA) assay by 
administering fenbufen at 2, 6 and 10 mg.kg-1 and azathioprine 40 mg.kg-1 (as 
standard therapy) to albino mice by intraperitoneal route. The ex vivo 
immunomodulatory action was determined by red blood cell (RBC) membrane 
stabilization and protein denaturation assays. The results showed that fenbufen 
treatment had significantly (p<0.05-p<0.001) reduced white blood cells, 
hemoglobin content, and red blood cells in the healthy and neutropenic mice. A 
significant (p<0.001) reduction in activities of superoxide dismutase and 
catalase and glutathione contents, and enhancement of malondialdehyde level were 
observed in neutropenic mice that were restored by fenbufen treatment. It 
suppressed DTH reaction after 24, 48 and 72 h post topical application of 2, 
4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB). Fenbufen or azathioprine treated groups also 
showed a significant reduction in the antibody titer against human RBCs induced 
immune activation in mice as compared to the disease control mice. Fenbufen 
showed IC50 of 14.0, 50.5 and 66.2 μg.ml-1 whereas, diclofenac sodium showed 
IC50 of 61.0, 126 and 50.5 μg/ml in RBCs membrane stabilization, egg albumin and 
bovine serum albumin denaturation assays respectively. The current study shows 
that fenbufen might have potential immunomodulatory activity against CMI and HI. 
It can be utilized to treat immune system disorders.

DOI: 10.14715/cmb/2021.67.5.4
PMID: 35818275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Medicine (Baltimore). 2019 Feb;98(6):e14421. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000014421.

Association between food allergy and ankylosing spondylitis: An observational 
study.

Niu Q(1), Wei W(2), Huang Z(1), Zhang J(1), Yang B(1), Wang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, West China Hospital.
(2)West China Medical School, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.

Food allergies can alter the gut microbiome composition, increasing the risk of 
conditions such as ankylosing spondylitis (AS).To identify the association 
between specific allergens and AS, we investigated the differences in the serum 
levels of 14 food antigen-specific immunoglobulin (Ig) G between AS patients and 
healthy participants. The association between the levels of these antibodies and 
disease activity was assessed by measuring the inflammatory marker C-reactive 
protein (CRP).We enrolled 75 AS patients and 78 healthy controls who had 
undergone antigen-specific IgG tests in West China Hospital between January 2015 
and October 2017, and performed enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for specific 
IgG against 14 food allergens: rice, egg, mushroom, milk, pork, chicken, beef, 
crab, codfish, corn, soybean, tomato, shrimp, and wheat. The following tests 
were used to analyze differences between AS patients and healthy controls: χ 
test for sex, and a 2-tailed Student t-test or Mann-Whitney U test based on the 
results of Levene test for age and IgG levels. Correlations between IgG and CRP 
levels were calculated using a Spearman's correlation.AS patients had 
significantly higher serum levels of beef-, crab-, and pork-specific IgG than 
did healthy participants. In addition, the serum levels of pork-specific IgG 
were significantly and positively correlated with CRP.These results suggest that 
α-Gal, the predominant natural antigen in mammalian red meat, might play a 
potential role in the pathogenesis of AS, and therefore, AS patients should 
exclude such allergenic foods, including beef, crab and pork, from their daily 
diet.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000014421
PMCID: PMC6380781
PMID: 30732197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


6. Rev Bras Reumatol Engl Ed. 2016 Mar-Apr;56(2):185-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.rbre.2014.07.005. Epub 2015 Feb 20.

Chronic polyarthritis as isolated manifestation of toxocariasis.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Viola GR(1), Giacomin MF(1), França CM(1), Sallum AM(1), Jacob CM(2), Silva 
CA(3).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Rheumatology Unit, Pediatric Department, School of Medicine, 
Universidade São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Pediatric Allergy and Immunology Unit, Pediatric Department, School of 
Medicine, Universidade São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Pediatric Rheumatology Unit, Pediatric Department, School of Medicine, 
Universidade São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil; Division of Rheumatology, School 
of Medicine, Universidade São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: 
clovisaasilva@gmail.com.

Human toxocariasis is a parasitic zoonosis mainly caused by Toxocara canis or 
Toxocara cati and is acquired by ingestion of the parasite's embryonated eggs. 
Arthralgia and/or arthritis were reported in up to 17% of the cases, generally 
with acute duration (less than 6 weeks). However, to our knowledge, chronic 
polyarthritis, as the isolated presentation of Toxocara infection, was not 
reported. One of the 5809 patients that was followed up at our service (0.017%) 
had chronic polyarthritis as the single manifestation of toxocariasis and was 
described herein. A 3-year-old girl was referred to our service with severe 
painful chronic polyarthritis for a period longer than 10 weeks and morning 
stiffness of 30min. Dog contact exposure history in the recreational areas of 
neighborhood was reported. Her exams showed high levels of eosinophils in 
peripheral blood (29%), bone marrow aspirate revealed marked eosinophilia (32%) 
and Toxocara enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) was positive (1:1280). 
She was treated with paracetamol (40mg/kg/day) and thiabendazole (25mg/kg/day) 
for 10 days, and all manifestations reduced. After eight months of follow-up, 
she was on clinical and laboratorial remission. In conclusion, we described a 
case of chronic polyarthritis, as isolated manifestation of toxocariasis, 
mimicking juvenile idiopathic arthritis and leukemia. Importantly, this zoonosis 
should be considered in patients with arthritis and eosinophilia.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbre.2014.07.005
PMID: 27267534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep. 2016 May;16(5):35. doi: 10.1007/s11882-016-0613-x.

Peanut Allergy: New Developments and Clinical Implications.

Commins SP(1)(2)(3)(4), Kim EH(5)(6)(7), Orgel K(7), Kulis M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. scommins@email.unc.edu.
(2)Thurston Arthritis Research Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. 
scommins@email.unc.edu.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. scommins@email.unc.edu.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, Allergy and Immunology, 
University of North Carolina, 3300 Thurston Building, CB 7280, Chapel Hill, NC, 
27599-7280, USA. scommins@email.unc.edu.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(6)Thurston Arthritis Research Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

Food allergies have increased in prevalence over the past 20 years, now becoming 
an important public health concern. Although there are no therapies currently 
available for routine clinical care, recent reports have indicated that 
immunotherapies targeting the mucosal immune system may be effective. Oral 
immunotherapy is conducted by administering small, increasing amounts of food 
allergen; it has shown promise for desensitizing individuals with peanut, egg, 
or milk allergies. Sublingual immunotherapy also desensitizes allergic patients 
to foods-two major studies have examined the effects of sublingual immunotherapy 
in subjects with peanut allergies. We review the complex nature of IgE-mediated 
food allergies and the therapies being evaluated in clinical trials. We focus on 
the diagnosis and management of food allergies and investigational therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11882-016-0613-x
PMID: 27039393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2009;110(8):480-5.

HLA-b27 subtypes in patients with spondylarthropathies, IgE levels against some 
allergens and their relationship to the disease parameters.

Kamanli A(1), Ardicoglu O, Godekmerdan A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 
Firat University, School of Medicine, Elazig, Turkey. akamanli@hotmail.com

In suitable genetic backgrounds, some exogenous and/or endogenous antigens may 
cause SpA. In this study, we investigated HLA B27 subtypes and its relationship 
to some allergens and clinical findings in a group of SpA patients. Forty-eight 
patients (19F, 29M) with SpA (27 with ankylosing spondylitis, 5 with reactive 
arthritis, 15 undifferentiated and 1 with psoriatic arthritis) were included to 
the study. HLA-B alleles have been assessed using the LiPA (Line Probe Assay) 
reverse hybridization principle method. The allergens studied were following: 
egg white, yolk, wheat flour, hot pepper, tomatoes, olive, onion, chicken, black 
tea, sheep cheese, penicillin panel (m1, m25, m28, m30), fungus panel (m1, m2, 
m3, m6), and housemix panel (e1, e2, d1, d2, m2, m3). 59.3% of the patients were 
positive for HLA-B27. Of these patients, 53.6% had B*2702 allele which was the 
most common, followed by B*2708 (21.1%) and B*2701 (10.5%). HLA-B27 was positive 
in 70% of the ankylosing spondylitis patients and 52% had B*2702 subgroup and 
B35 was the most common subgroup among the patients who were HLA-B27 negative. 
Allergic reactions against these 13 allergens were more severe in patients 
HLA-B27 positive. The most frequent allergic reactions were against the onion 
and housemix panel, followed by red pepper, tomatoes, sheep cheese and olive. 
HLA-B*2702 and HLA-B*2701 subgroups had more severe allergic reactions that 
correlated with a disease severity (p < 0.001). These results indicate that 
B*2702 and B*2708 is more frequent in our region in contrast to B*2705 which is 
more commonly found all around the world and that our region represents a 
heterogeneous distribution. IgE levels against some allergen were found higher 
in patients with SpA (Fig. 2, Tab. 5, Ref. 37).

PMID: 19750986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Gut. 2006 Sep;55(9):1240-7. doi: 10.1136/gut.2005.076901. Epub 2006 Feb 16.

The gut-joint axis: cross reactive food antibodies in rheumatoid arthritis.

Hvatum M(1), Kanerud L, Hällgren R, Brandtzaeg P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Immunohistochemistry and Immunopathology (LIIPAT), Institute 
of Pathology, Rikshospitalet, N-0027 Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) often feel there is 
an association between food intake and rheumatoid disease severity. To 
investigate a putative immunological link between gut immunity and RA, food 
antibodies were measured in serum and perfusion fluid from the jejunum of RA 
patients and healthy controls to determine the systemic and mucosal immune 
response.
METHODS: IgG, IgA, and IgM antibodies to dietary antigens were measured in serum 
and jejunal perfusion fluid from 14 RA patients and 20 healthy subjects. The 
antigens originated from cow's milk (alpha-lactalbumin, beta-lactoglobulin, 
casein), cereals, hen's egg (ovalbumin), cod fish, and pork meat.
RESULTS: In intestinal fluid of many RA patients, all three immunoglobulin 
classes showed increased food specific activities. Except for IgM activity 
against beta-lactoglobulin, all other IgM activities were significantly 
increased irrespective of the total IgM level. The RA associated serum IgM 
antibody responses were relatively much less pronounced. Compared with IgM, the 
intestinal IgA activities were less consistently raised, with no significant 
increase against gliadin and casein. Considerable cross reactivity of IgM and 
IgA antibodies was documented by absorption tests. Although intestinal IgG 
activity to food was quite low, it was nevertheless significantly increased 
against many antigens in RA patients. Three of the five RA patients treated with 
sulfasalazine for 16 weeks had initially raised levels of intestinal food 
antibodies; these became normalised after treatment, but clinical improvement 
was better reflected in a reduced erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
CONCLUSIONS: The production of cross reactive antibodies is strikingly increased 
in the gut of many RA patients. Their food related problems might reflect an 
adverse additive effect of multiple modest hypersensitivity reactions mediated, 
for instance, by immune complexes promoting autoimmune reactions in the joints.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2005.076901
PMCID: PMC1860040
PMID: 16484508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


10. Br J Gen Pract. 2003 Oct;53(495):801-2.

Egg allergy and MMR vaccination.

Fox A(1), Lack G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Allergy and Immunology, St Mary's Hospital, London. 
adam.fox2@virgin.net

PMCID: PMC1314715
PMID: 14601358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]