1. Cells. 2025 Apr 25;14(9):639. doi: 10.3390/cells14090639.

Role of IgG4 Antibodies in Human Health and Disease.

Shi LL(1)(2), Xiong P(1)(3), Yang M(1), Ardicli O(1)(4), Schneider SR(1), Funch 
AB(1)(5), Kiykim A(1)(6), Lopez J(1), Akdis CA(1), Akdis M(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
7265 Davos, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Tongji Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, 
China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.
(4)Division of Food Processing, Milk and Dairy Products Technology Program, 
Karacabey Vocational School, Bursa Uludag University, Bursa 16700, Turkey.
(5)LEO Foundation Skin Immunology Research Center, Department of Immunology and 
Microbiology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, 
Cerrahpasa Medical School, Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul 34098, 
Turkey.

Immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4), a unique subclass of IgG antibodies, plays diverse 
roles in human health and disease. Its distinct features, such as Fab-arm 
exchange and specific mutations, confer reduced effector functions compared to 
other IgG subclasses. In health, IgG4 responses contribute to immune tolerance, 
particularly in the context of allergen-specific immunotherapy (AIT), where they 
can mediate tolerance to environmental antigens, inhibit IgE-dependent mast cell 
degranulation, and compete with IgE for allergen binding. This helps in 
attenuating allergic symptoms and is associated with increased levels of 
allergen-specific IgG4. However, in disease scenarios, the role of IgG4 is 
complex. IgG4 lacks complement fixation and, thus, shows a reduced ability to 
activate immune effector pathways, it was initially thought to be protective 
against autoimmune diseases. However, emerging evidence suggests that it can 
contribute to pathology. For instance, IgG4 autoantibodies against specific 
antigens can aggravate conditions in certain autoimmune disorders. In some 
cancers, it may play a role in immune evasion, with higher levels correlating 
with poor patient survival, albeit in others, its exact function remains 
elusive. Overall, understanding the precise role of IgG4 in various 
physiological and pathological conditions is crucial for developing targeted 
therapeutic strategies and improving patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.3390/cells14090639
PMCID: PMC12071442
PMID: 40358163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest to disclose.


2. Cell Mol Immunol. 2025 Mar;22(3):211-242. doi: 10.1038/s41423-025-01261-2.
Epub  2025 Feb 17.

Type 2 immunity in allergic diseases.

Ogulur I(#)(1), Mitamura Y(#)(1), Yazici D(1), Pat Y(1), Ardicli S(1)(2), Li 
M(1), D'Avino P(1), Beha C(1), Babayev H(1), Zhao B(1), Zeyneloglu C(1), 
Giannelli Viscardi O(1), Ardicli O(1)(3), Kiykim A(1)(4), Garcia-Sanchez 
A(1)(5), Lopez JF(1), Shi LL(1)(6), Yang M(1), Schneider SR(1), Skolnick 
S(1)(7), Dhir R(7), Radzikowska U(1), Kulkarni AJ(1), Imam MB(1), Veen WV(1), 
Sokolowska M(1), Martin-Fontecha M(8), Palomares O(9), Nadeau KC(10), Akdis 
M(1), Akdis CA(11).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa Uludag 
University, Bursa, Turkey.
(3)Division of Food Processing, Milk and Dairy Products Technology Program, 
Karacabey Vocational School, Bursa Uludag University, Bursa, Turkey.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, 
Cerrahpasa School of Medicine, Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Science, School of Medicine, 
University of Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain.
(6)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Tongji Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, P.R. 
China.
(7)Seed Health Inc., Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(8)Departamento de Quimica Organica, Facultad de Optica y Optometria, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Chemistry, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(10)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland. akdisac@siaf.uzh.ch.
(#)Contributed equally

Significant advancements have been made in understanding the cellular and 
molecular mechanisms of type 2 immunity in allergic diseases such as asthma, 
allergic rhinitis, chronic rhinosinusitis, eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), food 
and drug allergies, and atopic dermatitis (AD). Type 2 immunity has evolved to 
protect against parasitic diseases and toxins, plays a role in the expulsion of 
parasites and larvae from inner tissues to the lumen and outside the body, 
maintains microbe-rich skin and mucosal epithelial barriers and counterbalances 
the type 1 immune response and its destructive effects. During the development 
of a type 2 immune response, an innate immune response initiates starting from 
epithelial cells and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), including dendritic cells and 
macrophages, and translates to adaptive T and B-cell immunity, particularly IgE 
antibody production. Eosinophils, mast cells and basophils have effects on 
effector functions. Cytokines from ILC2s and CD4+ helper type 2 (Th2) cells, 
CD8 + T cells, and NK-T cells, along with myeloid cells, including IL-4, IL-5, 
IL-9, and IL-13, initiate and sustain allergic inflammation via T cell cells, 
eosinophils, and ILC2s; promote IgE class switching; and open the epithelial 
barrier. Epithelial cell activation, alarmin release and barrier dysfunction are 
key in the development of not only allergic diseases but also many other 
systemic diseases. Recent biologics targeting the pathways and effector 
functions of IL4/IL13, IL-5, and IgE have shown promising results for almost all 
ages, although some patients with severe allergic diseases do not respond to 
these therapies, highlighting the unmet need for a more detailed and 
personalized approach.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41423-025-01261-2
PMCID: PMC11868591
PMID: 39962262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: S.S. is currently a 
salaried employee of Seed Health, a probiotic retailer. R.D. is a cofounder and 
CEO in Seed Health. W.V. has received research grants from PROMEDICA Stiftung, 
Switzerland, and EoE Stiftung, Switzerland, and consulting fees from Mabylon AG, 
Switzerland. M.S. has received research grants from the Swiss National Science 
Foundation (SNSF nr 310030_189334/1 and 320030E_224154), GSK, Novartis, Stiftung 
vorm. Bündner Heilstätte Arosa, Thermofisher and OM Pharma, speaker’s fee from 
AstraZeneca and consults for Roche. She is a member-at-large of the European 
Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) and EAACI Educational Events 
Committee Chair. O.P. received research grants from MINECO, Ministerio de 
Ciencia e Innovación, CAM, Inmunotek S.L., Novartis, and AstraZeneca and fees 
for giving scientific lectures or participation in Advisory Boards from 
AstraZeneca, Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Inmunotek S.L., Novartis and 
Sanofi-Genzyme. K.C.N. reports grants from the National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), 
and from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), other 
from the Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), other from National Institutes of 
Health (NIH) clinical research centers, during the conduct of the study; other 
from IgGenix, other from Seed Health, other from ClostraBio, other from Cour, 
other from Alladapt, other from Excellergy, other from Red Tree Ventures, other 
from Regeneron, other from Latitude, outside the submitted work. In addition, 
K.C.N. has the following patents: “Mixed allergen composition and methods for 
using the same”, “Granulocyte-based methods for detecting and monitoring immune 
system disorders”, and “Methods and Assays for Detecting and Quantifying Pure 
Subpopulations of White Blood Cells in Immune System Disorders”. M.A. has 
received research grants from the Swiss National Science Foundation, Bern; 
research grants from Stanford University; Leading House for the Latin American 
Region; and Seed Money Grants. She is a Scientific Advisory Board member of 
Stanford University-Sean Parker Asthma Allergy Center, CA; an Advisory Board 
member of the LEO Foundation Skin Immunology Research Center, Copenhagen; and a 
Scientific Co-Chair of the World Allergy Congress (WAC) Istanbul, 2022, 
Scientific Programme Committee Chair, EAACI. C.A.A. has received research grants 
from the Swiss National Science Foundation, European Union (EU CURE, EU 
Syn-Air-G), Novartis Research Institutes (Basel, Switzerland), Stanford 
University (Redwood City, Calif), Seed Health (Boston, USA), AO Research 
Institute (Davos, Switzerland) and SciBase (Stockholm, Sweden). He is the 
cochair for the EAACI Guidelines on Environmental Science in Allergic Diseases 
and Asthma; Chair of the EAACI Epithelial Cell Biology Working Group. Serves on 
the Advisory Boards of Sanofi/Regeneron (Bern, Switzerland, New York, USA), 
Stanford University Sean Parker Asthma Allergy Center (CA, USA), Novartis 
(Basel, Switzerland), GlaxoSmithKline (Zurich, Switzerland), Bristol-Myers 
Squibb (New York, USA), Seed Health (Boston, USA) and SciBase (Stockholm, 
Sweden). C.A.A. is the Editor-in-Chief of Allergy. I.O., Y.M., D.Y., Y.P., S.A., 
M.L., P.D’A., C.B., H.B., B.Z., C.Z., O.G.V., O.A., A.K., A.G.-S., J.-F.L., 
L.S., M.Y., S.R.S., U.R., A.J.K., M.B.I, and M.M.-F. declare no relevant 
conflicts of interest.


3. Front Immunol. 2025 Jan 7;15:1364129. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1364129. 
eCollection 2024.

Designing a multi-epitope vaccine candidate against human rhinovirus C utilizing 
immunoinformatics approach.

Mamun TI(1)(2), Ali MA(3), Hosen MN(4), Rahman J(2), Islam MA(2), Akib MG(2), 
Zaman K(2), Rahman MM(2)(5), Hossain FMA(2)(6), Ibenmoussa S(7), Bourhia M(8), 
Dawoud TM(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Sylhet Agricultural University, 
Sylhet, Bangladesh.
(2)Faculty of Veterinary, Animal and Biomedical Sciences, Sylhet Agricultural 
University, Sylhet, Bangladesh.
(3)Department Of Chemistry, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Sylhet Agricultural University, 
Sylhet, Bangladesh.
(5)Department of Pathology, Sylhet Agricultural University, Sylhet, Bangladesh.
(6)Department of Dairy Science, Sylhet Agricultural University, Sylhet, 
Bangladesh.
(7)Laboratory of Therapeutic and Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(8)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Ibn Zohr University, Laayoune, Morocco.
(9)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Human rhinovirus C (HRV-C) is a significant contributor to respiratory tract 
infections in children and is implicated in asthma exacerbations across all age 
groups. Despite its impact, there is currently no licensed vaccine available for 
HRV-C. Here, we present a novel approach to address this gap by employing 
immunoinformatics techniques for the design of a multi-epitope-based vaccine 
against HRV-C. The sequences of the chosen structural proteins VP1 and VP2, 
along with the non-structural protein 2C of HRV-C, were downloaded in FASTA 
format from the NCBI server for further analysis. Through an exhaustive analysis 
of HRV-C genomic sequences, we identified highly conserved immunogenic regions 
capable of eliciting a protective immune response. Leveraging advanced 
immunoinformatics tools, we predicted epitopes for B-cells, Cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes, and Helper T lymphocytes, ensuring broad coverage across different 
HRV-C strains. The vaccine candidate was constructed by integrating selected 
antigens with immunogenic epitopes and adjuvants, employing optimal linkers. 
Three vaccine constructs were developed, with V2 being the most promising, 
consisting of 480 amino acids residues. V2 exhibited strong antigenicity, 
non-allergenicity, and solubility, with a solubility score greater than 0.550, 
and demonstrated excellent structural stability, with 91.9% of residues in the 
most favorable regions of the Ramachandran plot. Molecular dynamics and 
simulation studies revealed a stable Vaccine-TLR8 complex, with a binding energy 
of -296.15 and consistent RMSD values. Furthermore, in silico cloning and 
sequence optimization ensured efficient expression in E. coli, with a Codon 
Adaptation Index of 0.99 and GC content of 54.58%. The minimum free energy of 
the RNA secondary structure was -494.90 kcal/mol. While our findings suggest the 
potential effectiveness of the designed vaccine candidate against HRV-C, further 
in vitro and in vivo investigations are warranted to validate its safety and 
efficacy.

Copyright © 2025 Mamun, Ali, Hosen, Rahman, Islam, Akib, Zaman, Rahman, Hossain, 
Ibenmoussa, Bourhia and Dawoud.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1364129
PMCID: PMC11747413
PMID: 39840071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2025 Feb;155(2):421-422. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2024.11.017. Epub 2024 Nov 19.

Food elimination in EoE: Milk before wheat, egg, and soy.

Crawford RJ(1), Wright BL(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy, Asthma, and Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic Arizona, Scottsdale, Ariz; Division of Allergy and Immunology, 
Phoenix Children's Hospital, Phoenix, Ariz.
(2)Division of Allergy, Asthma, and Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic Arizona, Scottsdale, Ariz; Division of Allergy and Immunology, 
Phoenix Children's Hospital, Phoenix, Ariz. Electronic address: 
wright.benjamin@mayo.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2024.11.017
PMCID: PMC12040323
PMID: 39571913

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure statement Supported by the National 
Institutes of Health/National Insitute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (grant 
K23AI158813 [to B.L.W.]). Disclosure of potential conflict of interest: The 
authors declare that they have no relevant conflicts of interest.


5. Mol Immunol. 2024 Dec;176:11-21. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2024.10.004. Epub 2024 
Nov 15.

The conformational epitope of Ara h 5 was crucial to the severe reactivity of 
peanut allergy.

Wang J(1), Hao M(2), Wang Q(2), Liu M(2), Liu G(2), Han S(2), Zhao X(3), Che 
H(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Precision Nutrition and Food Quality, Key Laboratory of 
Functional Dairy, Ministry of Education, College of Food Science and Nutritional 
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, PR China; Institute 
of Agri-food Processing and Nutrition, Beijing Academy of Agriculture and 
Forestry Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Fruits and Vegetables Preservation 
and Processing, Key Laboratory of Vegetable Postharvest Processing, Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Beijing 100097, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Precision Nutrition and Food Quality, Key Laboratory of 
Functional Dairy, Ministry of Education, College of Food Science and Nutritional 
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, PR China.
(3)Institute of Agri-food Processing and Nutrition, Beijing Academy of 
Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Fruits and 
Vegetables Preservation and Processing, Key Laboratory of Vegetable Postharvest 
Processing, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Beijing 100097, PR China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Precision Nutrition and Food Quality, Key Laboratory of 
Functional Dairy, Ministry of Education, College of Food Science and Nutritional 
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, PR China. Electronic 
address: chehuilian@cau.edu.cn.

Conformational epitopes are associated with the development of food allergic 
tolerance and the severity of food allergy. Peanut can trigger severe 
anaphylactic reactions, however, the reason behind the severe allergic reactions 
caused by peanut remains unexplained. The purpose of this article was to provide 
an explanation for the severe allergy caused by peanut, focusing on the 
conformational epitopes of Ara h 5 and Ara h 8 allergens that exhibit 
cross-reactivity with asthma reactions. Ara h 5 and Ara h 8 proteins were 
prepared by an Escherichia coli expression system. IgE reactivity of 37 patients 
with allergy toward Ara h 5 and Ara h 8 allergens was assessed by using 
IgE-binding assays, dot blot and western blot. The allergenicity of Ara h 5 and 
Ara h 8 protein was analysed in mouse model. Conformational IgE epitopes of Ara 
h 5 was identified using phage peptide library and the Pepitope Server. Compared 
to Ara h 8, the conformational epitope of Ara h 5 protein was crucial in the 
process of sensitization. Ara h 5 showed a stronger IgE reactivity and the 
ability to induce β-hexosaminidase release. Ara h 5 caused more severe lung 
inflammation than Ara h 8 protein. While Ara h 8 caused more severe intestinal 
inflammation than Ara h 5. The results showed that the conformational epitope 
sequences of Ara h 5 were WETIYSR and FHWWYLK. The results provide a theoretical 
basis for the production of hypoallergenic peanut protein and the immunotherapy 
of peanut allergy.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2024.10.004
PMID: 39549640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 2024 Nov 1;52(6):85-90. doi: 
10.15586/aei.v52i6.1173. eCollection 2024.

Exploring food-specific IgG responses in pediatric allergic disorders: A 
retrospective cross-sectional study.

Atwah AF(1), Koshak EA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University, 
Rabigh, Saudi Arabia; latwah@kau.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine. King Abdulaziz 
University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: The role of immunoglobulin G (IgG) responses to food as potential 
triggering factors in allergic disorders continues to be debatable, and is not 
endorsed by most allergy societies.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the prevalence of specific IgG immune responses to common 
foods in pediatric allergic disorders and any potential relationship between 
them.
METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted on children and adolescents 
diagnosed with allergic disorders at the Ekthar Clinic in Jeddah City. 
Food-specific IgG (FS-IgG) antibody test results were collected from their 
medical records.
RESULTS: Seventy-five children with a mean age of 8.5 years (SD = 5.3) were 
included. The overall allergic diagnosis determined atopic dermatitis as the 
most common (57.3%, 43 participants), followed by food allergy and allergic 
rhinitis (each 40%, 30 participants), and bronchial asthma (29.3%, 22 
participants). Food-specific IgG levels were elevated in all participants. The 
foods with the highest levels of FS-IgG were dairy products (88%: cow's milk 
[86.6%], sour milk [81.3%], sheep's milk [74.7%], cheese [72%], and goat's milk 
[70.7%]), followed by gluten-containing products (81.3%: wheat [70.7%], gluten 
[69.3%], and spelt [66.6%]), and eggs (66.6%). Significant correlations (P < 
0.05) were found between atopic dermatitis and several foods; chronic urticaria 
and chicken and lamb; asthma and ocean perch; allergic rhinitis and rennet 
cheese; and allergic conjunctivitis and potato, pollock, and lamb.
CONCLUSION: Among pediatric allergic disorders, dairy, gluten, and eggs were the 
most detected foods in FS-IgG tests, with some notable correlations with other 
foods. FS-IgG testing may help identify potential triggers in refractory 
allergic disorders.

DOI: 10.15586/aei.v52i6.1173
PMID: 39515801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Allergy. 2024 Dec;79(12):3238-3268. doi: 10.1111/all.16343. Epub 2024 Oct 17.

Epithelial barrier dysfunction and associated diseases in companion animals: 
Differences and similarities between humans and animals and research needs.

Ardicli S(1)(2), Ardicli O(1)(3), Yazici D(1), Pat Y(1), Babayev H(1), Xiong 
P(1)(4), Zeyneloglu C(1), Garcia-Sanchez A(1)(5), Shi LL(1)(6), Viscardi OG(1), 
Skolnick S(1)(7), Ogulur I(1), Dhir R(7), Jutel M(8)(9), Agache I(10), Janda 
J(11), Pali-Schöll I(12)(13), Nadeau KC(14), Akdis M(1), Akdis CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa Uludag 
University, Bursa, Türkiye.
(3)Division of Food Processing, Milk and Dairy Products Technology Program, 
Karacabey Vocational School, Bursa Uludag University, Bursa, Türkiye.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, P. R. China.
(5)Department of Biomedical & Diagnostic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain.
(6)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Tongji Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, P. R. 
China.
(7)SEED Inc. Co., Los Angeles, California, USA.
(8)Department of Clinical Immunology, Wrocław Medical University, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(9)ALL-MED Medical Research Institute, Wrocław, Poland.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, 
Transylvania University, Brasov, Romania.
(11)Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(12)The Interuniversity Messerli Research Institute of the University of 
Veterinary Medicine and Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(13)Institute of Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Center of 
Pathophysiology, Infectiology and Immunology, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.
(14)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Since the 1960s, more than 350,000 new chemicals have been introduced into the 
lives of humans and domestic animals. Many of them have become part of modern 
life and some are affecting nature as pollutants. Yet, our comprehension of 
their potential health risks for both humans and animals remains partial. The 
"epithelial barrier theory" suggests that genetic predisposition and exposure to 
diverse factors damaging the epithelial barriers contribute to the emergence of 
allergic and autoimmune conditions. Impaired epithelial barriers, microbial 
dysbiosis, and tissue inflammation have been observed in a high number of 
mucosal inflammatory, autoimmune and neuropsychiatric diseases, many of which 
showed increased prevalence in the last decades. Pets, especially cats and dogs, 
share living spaces with humans and are exposed to household cleaners, personal 
care products, air pollutants, and microplastics. The utilisation of cosmetic 
products and food additives for pets is on the rise, unfortunately, accompanied 
by less rigorous safety regulations than those governing human products. In this 
review, we explore the implications of disruptions in epithelial barriers on the 
well-being of companion animals, drawing comparisons with humans, and endeavour 
to elucidate the spectrum of diseases that afflict them. In addition, future 
research areas with the interconnectedness of human, animal, and environmental 
well-being are highlighted in line with the "One Health" concept.

© 2024 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.16343
PMCID: PMC11657079
PMID: 39417247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CAA has received research grants from the Swiss 
National Science Foundation, European Union (EU CURE, EU Syn‐Air‐G), Novartis 
Research Institutes, (Basel, Switzerland), Stanford University (Redwood City, 
Calif), Seed Health (Boston, USA) and SciBase (Stockholm, Sweden); is the 
Co‐Chair for EAACI Guidelines on Environmental Science in Allergic diseases and 
Asthma; Chair of the EAACI Epithelial Cell Biology Working Group is on the 
Advisory Boards of Sanofi/Regeneron (Bern, Switzerland, New York, USA), Stanford 
University Sean Parker Asthma Allergy Center (CA, USA), Novartis (Basel, 
Switzerland), Glaxo Smith Kline (Zurich, Switzerland), Bristol‐Myers Squibb (New 
York, USA), Seed Health (Boston, USA) and SciBase (Stockholm, Sweden); and is 
the Editor‐in‐Chief of Allergy. MA has received research grants from Swiss 
National science Foundation, Bern; research grant from the Stanford University; 
Leading House for the Latin American Region, Seed Money Grant. She is in the 
Scientific Advisory Board member of Stanford University‐Sean Parker Asthma 
Allergy Center, CA; Advisory Board member of LEO Foundation Skin Immunology 
Research Center, Copenhagen; and Scientific Co‐Chair of World allergy Congress 
(WAC) Istanbul, 2022, Scientific Programme Committee Chair, EAACI. RD is a 
co‐founder and CEO in Seed Health. SS is currently a salaried employee of Seed 
Health, a probiotics retailer. The rest of the authors declare that they have no 
relevant competing interest.


8. Allergy. 2024 Dec;79(12):3192-3237. doi: 10.1111/all.16318. Epub 2024 Oct 7.

The epithelial barrier theory and its associated diseases.

Sun N(1)(2), Ogulur I(1), Mitamura Y(1), Yazici D(1), Pat Y(1), Bu X(1), Li 
M(1), Zhu X(1), Babayev H(1), Ardicli S(1)(3), Ardicli O(1)(4), D'Avino P(1), 
Kiykim A(1)(5), Sokolowska M(1), van de Veen W(1), Weidmann L(6), Akdis D(7), 
Ozdemir BG(8), Brüggen MC(9)(10)(11), Biedermann L(12), Straumann A(12), 
Kreienbühl A(12), Guttman-Yassky E(13), Santos AF(14)(15)(16), Del Giacco S(17), 
Traidl-Hoffmann C(18), Jackson DJ(19)(20), Wang DY(21), Lauerma A(22), 
Breiteneder H(23), Zhang L(24)(25), O'Mahony L(26)(27), Pfaar O(28), O'Hehir 
R(29)(30), Eiwegger T(31)(32)(33)(34), Fokkens WJ(35), Cabanillas B(36), Ozdemir 
C(37)(38), Kistler W(39)(40)(41), Bayik M(42), Nadeau KC(43), Torres MJ(44), 
Akdis M(1), Jutel M(45), Agache I(46), Akdis CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(2)SKL of Marine Food Processing & Safety Control, National Engineering Research 
Center of Seafood, School of Food Science and Technology, Dalian Polytechnic 
University, Dalian, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa Uludag 
University, Bursa, Turkey.
(4)Division of Food Processing, Milk and Dairy Products Technology Program, 
Karacabey Vocational School, Bursa Uludag University, Bursa, Turkey.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, 
Cerrahpasa School of Medicine, Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(6)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(8)Obstetrician and Gynecologist, Nisantasi, Istanbul, Turkey.
(9)Christine Kühne-Center for Allergy Research and Education (CK-CARE), Davos, 
Switzerland.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(11)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(12)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Zurich, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(13)Department of Dermatology, and Laboratory of Inflammatory Skin Diseases, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Department of Women and Children's Health (Pediatric Allergy), School of 
Life Course Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College 
London, London, UK.
(15)Children's Allergy Service, Evelina London Children's Hospital, Guy's and 
St. Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.
(16)Peter Gorer Department of Immunobiology, School of Immunology and Microbial 
Sciences, King's College London, London, UK.
(17)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy.
(18)Environmental Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Augsburg, 
Augsburg, Germany.
(19)Guy's Severe Asthma Centre, Guy's Hospital, Guy's & St Thomas' NHS Trust, 
London, UK.
(20)School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences, King's College London, London, 
UK.
(21)Department of Otolaryngology, Infectious Diseases Translational Research 
Programme, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, 
National University Health System, Singapore City, Singapore.
(22)Department of Dermatology, Helsinki University Hospital and University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(23)Department of Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Medical University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(24)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Beijing Tongren 
Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(25)Beijing Laboratory of Allergic Diseases and Beijing Key Laboratory of Nasal 
Diseases, Beijing Institute of Otolaryngology, Beijing, China.
(26)Department of Medicine and School of Microbiology, University College Cork, 
Cork, Ireland.
(27)APC Microbiome Ireland, Cork, Ireland.
(28)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Section of 
Rhinology and Allergy, University Hospital Marburg, Philipps-Universität 
Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(29)Allergy, Asthma & Clinical Immunology, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(30)Department of Immunology, School of Translational Medicine, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(31)Translational Medicine Program, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(32)Department of Immunology, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(33)Karl Landsteiner University of Health Sciences, Krems an der Donau, Austria.
(34)Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, University Hospital St. 
Pölten, St. Pölten, Austria.
(35)Department of Otorhinolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery, Amsterdam UMC, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(36)Department of Allergy, Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria Hospital 12 
de Octubre (imas12), Madrid, Spain.
(37)Department of Pediatric Basic Sciences, Institute of Child Health, Istanbul 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(38)Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Division of 
Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(39)Department of Sports Medicine, Davos Hospital, Davos, Switzerland.
(40)Swiss Research Institute for Sports Medicine (SRISM), Davos, Switzerland.
(41)Medical Committee International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF), Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(42)Department of Internal Medicine and Hematology, Marmara University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(43)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(44)Allergy Unit, IBIMA-Hospital Regional Universitario de Málaga-ARADyAL, UMA, 
Málaga, Spain.
(45)Department of Clinical Immunology, Wrocław Medical University, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(46)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, 
Transylvania University, Brasov, Romania.

The prevalence of many chronic noncommunicable diseases has been steadily rising 
over the past six decades. During this time, over 350,000 new chemical 
substances have been introduced to the lives of humans. In recent years, the 
epithelial barrier theory came to light explaining the growing prevalence and 
exacerbations of these diseases worldwide. It attributes their onset to a 
functionally impaired epithelial barrier triggered by the toxicity of the 
exposed substances, associated with microbial dysbiosis, immune system 
activation, and inflammation. Diseases encompassed by the epithelial barrier 
theory share common features such as an increased prevalence after the 1960s or 
2000s that cannot (solely) be accounted for by the emergence of improved 
diagnostic methods. Other common traits include epithelial barrier defects, 
microbial dysbiosis with loss of commensals and colonization of opportunistic 
pathogens, and circulating inflammatory cells and cytokines. In addition, 
practically unrelated diseases that fulfill these criteria have started to 
emerge as multimorbidities during the last decades. Here, we provide a 
comprehensive overview of diseases encompassed by the epithelial barrier theory 
and discuss evidence and similarities for their epidemiology, genetic 
susceptibility, epithelial barrier dysfunction, microbial dysbiosis, and tissue 
inflammation.

© 2024 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.16318
PMCID: PMC11657050
PMID: 39370939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.S. has received research grants from the Swiss 
National Science Foundation (SNSF no.: 310030_189334/1), GSK, Novartis, Stiftung 
vorm. Bündner Heilstätte Arosa and OM Pharma as well as speaker's fee from 
AstraZeneca. W.V. has received research grants from PROMEDICA Stiftung, 
Switzerland, and EoE Stiftung, Switzerland, and consulting fees form Mabylon AG, 
Switzerland. M.C.B. reports grants from the Swiss National Science Foundation, 
Christine Kühne‐Center for Allergy Research and Education, Leo Foundation, LEO 
Pharmacy, and Freenovation, advisory board fees from AstraZeneca, Almirall, LEO 
Pharma, lecture honorarium from Almirall and AstraZeneca, and patient education 
grant from AstraZeneca and GSK. A.S. has currently consultant contracts with 
Astra‐Seneca, BMS‐Receptos, Calypso, EsoCap, Falk‐Pharma, GSK, and 
Sanofi‐Regeneron. E.G.Y. is an employee of Mount Sinai and has received research 
grants from and/or is a consultant for: Research Grants (paid to the 
institution): Boehringer Ingelheim, Leo Pharma, Pfizer, Cara Therapeutics, UCB, 
Kyowa Kirin, RAPT, Amgen, GSK, Incyte, Sanofi, Bristol Meyers Squibb, Aslan, 
Regeneron, Anaptysbio, Concert, Janssen. Consultant: Abbvie, Aclaris, Almirall, 
Amgen, AnaptysBio, Apogee Therapeutics, Apollo Therapeutics Limited, Artax 
Biopharma Inc., AstraZeneca, Bristol Meyers Squibb, Boerhinger‐Ingelhiem, Cara 
Therapeutics, Centrexion Therapeutics Corporation, Connect Biopharm, DBV 
TECHNOLOGIES, Eli Lilly, Enveda Biosciences, Escient Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 
Fairmount Funds Management LLC, Forest Laboratories Galderma, Gate Bio, Google 
Ventures (GV), GSK Immunology, Horizon Therapeutics USA, Inc., Incyte, Inmagene, 
Janssen Biotech, JT Central Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Jasper 
Therapeutics, Kyowa Kirin, Leo Pharma, Merck, Nektar Therapeutics, Novartis 
Pharmaceuticals Corporation, NUMAB Therapeutics AG, OrbiMed Advisors LLC, 
OTSUKA, Pfizer, Pharmaxis Ltd, Pioneering Medicine VII, Inc., Proteologix US 
Inc, RAPT, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, RibonTherapeutics, Inc., Sanofi, SATO, 
Schrödinger Inc., Sun Pharma Advanced Research Company (SPARC), Teva Branded 
Pharmaceutical Products R&D, UCB. A.F.S. reports grants from the Medical 
Research Council (MR/M008517/1; MC/PC/18052; MR/T032081/1), Food Allergy 
Research and Education (FARE), the Immune Tolerance Network/National Institute 
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID, NIH), Asthma UK (AUK‐BC‐2015‐01), 
BBSRC, Rosetrees Trust and the NIHR through the Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) 
award to Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, during the conduct of the 
study; personal fees from Thermo Scientific, Nestle, Novartis, Allergy 
Therapeutics, IgGenix, Buhlmann, as well as research support from IgGenix, 
Buhlmann, and Thermo Fisher Scientific through a collaboration agreement with 
King's College London. S.D.G. reports speaker fees from AstraZeneca, Chiesi, 
GSK, Novartis, Sanofi, Stallergenes and Takeda; advisory board fees from 
AstraZeneca, Chiesi, CSL‐Behring, GSK, Novartis, Sanofi, Takeda; unrestricted 
research grants from AstraZeneca, CSL‐Behring, GSK, Novartis, and Sanofi. O.P. 
reports grants and/or personal fees and/or travel support from ALK‐Abelló, 
Allergopharma, Stallergenes Greer, HAL Allergy Holding B.V./HAL Allergie GmbH, 
Bencard Allergie GmbH/Allergy Therapeutics, Laboratorios LETI/LETI Pharma, 
GlaxoSmithKline, ROXALL Medizin, Novartis, Sanofi‐Aventis and Sanofi‐Genzyme, 
Med Update Europe GmbH, streamedup! GmbH, Pohl‐Boskamp, Inmunotek S.L., John 
Wiley and Sons/AS, Paul‐Martini‐Stiftung (PMS), Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., 
RG Aerztefortbildung, Institut für Disease Management, Springer GmbH, 
AstraZeneca, IQVIA Commercial, Ingress Health, Wort&Bild Verlag, Verlag ME, 
Procter&Gamble, ALTAMIRA, Meinhardt Congress GmbH, Deutsche 
Forschungsgemeinschaft, Thieme, Deutsche AllergieLiga e.V., AeDA, Alfried‐Krupp 
Krankenhaus, Red Maple Trials Inc., Königlich Dänisches Generalkonsulat, 
Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, ECM Expro&Conference Management, Technical 
University Dresden, Lilly, Japanese Society of Allergy, Forum für Medizinische 
Fortbildung, Dustri‐Verlag, Pneumolive, ASIT Biotech, LOFARMA, Almirall, 
Paul‐Ehrlich‐Institut, outside the submitted work, and he is member of EAACI 
Excom, member of ext. board of directors DGAKI; coordinator, main‐ or co‐author 
of different position papers and guidelines in rhinology, allergology and 
allergen‐immunotherapy; he is associate editor (AE) of Allergy and Clinical 
Translational Allergy. T.E. reports personal fees from Danone/Nutricia/Milupa, 
grants from DBV, non‐financial support from Novartis, personal fees from Thermo 
Fisher, personal fees from Aimmune, grants and personal fees from ALK, 
non‐financial support from MADX, personal fees from EFSA, outside the submitted 
work, and I am the Co‐I or scientific lead in three investigator‐initiated oral 
immunotherapy trials supported by the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Program 
Sickkids and serve as associate editor for Allergy. Site PI of company sponsored 
trials by DBV, Novartis, and Stallergen. C.O. is Assistant Editor of Allergy, 
EAACI Allied Health & Primary Care Section chair. K.N. currently reports grants 
from National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences (NIEHS); Stock options from IgGenix, Seed Health, ClostraBio, 
Cour, Alladapt; Consultant for Excellergy, Red tree ventures, Regeneron, and 
IgGenix; Co‐founder of Alladapt, Latitude, and IgGenix; National Scientific 
Committee member at Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), and National Institutes of 
Health (NIH) clinical research centers; patents include, “Mixed allergen 
com‐position and methods for using the same,” “Granulocyte‐based methods for 
detecting and monitoring immune system disorders,” and “Methods and Assays for 
Detecting and Quantifying Pure Subpopulations of White Blood Cells in Immune 
System Disorders.” M.A. has received research grants from the Swiss National 
Science Foundation, Bern; research grant from the Stanford University; Leading 
House for the Latin American Region, Seed Money Grant. She is in the Scientific 
Advisory Board member of Stanford University Sean Parker Asthma Allergy Center, 
CA; Advisory Board member of LEO Foundation Skin Immunology Research Center, 
Copenhagen; and Scientific Co‐Chair of World Allergy Congress (WAC) Istanbul, 
2022, Scientific Programme Committee Chair, EAACI. M.J. reports personal fees 
outside of submitted work from Allergopharma, ALK‐Abello, Stallergenes, Anergis, 
Allergy Therapeutics, Leti, HAL, GSK, Novartis, Teva, Takeda, Chiesi, Pfizer, 
Regeneron, Astra‐Zeneka, Lallemand, Shire, Celltrion Inc., Genentech, Roche, 
Verona, Lek Pharmaceuticals, Arcutis Biotherapeutics and FAES FARMA. I.A. 
reports Deputy Editor of Allergy journal. C.A.A. has received research grants 
from the Swiss National Science Foundation, European Union (EU CURE, EU 
Syn‐Air‐G), Novartis Research Institutes (Basel, Switzerland), Stanford 
University (Redwood City, Calif), Seed Health (Boston, USA) and SciBase 
(Stockholm, Sweden); is the Co‐Chair for EAACI Guidelines on Environmental 
Science in Allergic diseases and Asthma; Chair of the EAACI Epithelial Cell 
Biology Working Group is on the Advisory Boards of Sanofi/Regeneron (Bern, 
Switzerland, New York, USA), Stanford University Sean Parker Asthma Allergy 
Center (CA, USA), Novartis (Basel, Switzerland), Glaxo Smith Kline (Zurich, 
Switzerland), Bristol‐Myers Squibb (New York, USA), Seed Health (Boston, USA), 
and SciBase (Stockholm, Sweden); and is the Editor‐in‐Chief of Allergy. N.S., 
I.O., Y.M., D.Y., Y.P., X.B., M.L., X.Z., H.B., S.A., O.A., P.D., A.K., L.W., 
D.A., B.G.O. L.B., A.K., C.T.H., D.J.J., D.Y.W., A.L., H.B., L.Z., L.O.M., 
R.O.H., W.J.F., B.C., K.W., M.B., and M.J.T declare no relevant conflict of 
interest. N.S. reports grants from CSC scholarship program of China (No. 
202008210164). D.A. reports grants and personal fees, outside the submitted 
work, from the Swiss National Science Foundation, the Swiss Heart Foundation and 
Boehringer Ingelheim. L.B. reports advisory from Abbvie, Amgen, BMS, Falk, 
Janssen, Pfizer, Lilly, Takeda, Sanofi, Esocap, and speaker fees from Takeda, 
Sanofi, Abbvie, Lilly, Falk, BMS and Pfizer. D.J.J. has received speaker fees 
and consultancy fees from AZ, GSK and Sanofi. L.O.M. is a consultant to 
PrecisionBiotics and has received research funding from GSK, Chiesi, Reckitt and 
Fonterra. He has participated in speaker's bureau for Nestle, Nutricia, Reckitt 
and Abbott.


9. Anim Biotechnol. 2024 Nov;35(1):2396421. doi: 10.1080/10495398.2024.2396421. 
Epub 2024 Sep 2.

The impact of genetic variants related to the fatty acid metabolic process 
pathway on milk production traits in Jersey cows.

Ardicli S(1)(2), Senturk N(1), Bozkurt B(3), Babayev H(2), Selvi T(4), Skolnick 
S(2)(5), Ter H(6), Aktas B(6), Isık A(6), Ay OT(7), Ardicli O(2)(8), Cobanoglu 
O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa Uludag 
University, Bursa, Turkiye.
(2)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Graduate School of Science 
and Engineering, Izmir Institute of Technology, Izmir, Turkiye.
(4)Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa Uludag 
University, Bursa, Turkiye.
(5)SEED Inc. Co, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Faculty of Science and Arts, 
Bursa Uludag University, Bursa, Turkiye.
(7)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Faculty of Science, Izmir 
Institute of Technology, İzmir, Turkiye.
(8)Division of Food Processing, Milk and Dairy Products Technology Program, 
Karacabey Vocational School, Bursa Uludag University, Bursa, Turkiye.

The synthesis of fatty acids plays a critical role in shaping milk production 
characteristics in dairy cattle. Thus, identifying effective haplotypes within 
the fatty acid metabolism pathway will provide novel and robust insights into 
the genetics of dairy cattle. This study aimed to comprehensively examine the 
individual and combined impacts of fundamental genes within the fatty acid 
metabolic process pathway in Jersey cows. A comprehensive phenotypic dataset was 
compiled, considering milk production traits, to summarize a cow's productivity 
across three lactations. Genotyping was conducted through PCR-RFLP and Sanger 
sequencing, while the association between genotype and phenotype was quantified 
using linear mixed models. Moderate biodiversity and abundant variation suitable 
for haplotype analysis were observed across all examined markers. The individual 
effects of the FABP3, LTF and ANXA9 genes significantly influenced both milk 
yield and milk fat production. Additionally, this study reveals novel two-way 
interactions between genes in the fatty acid metabolism pathway that directly 
affect milk fat properties. Notably, we identified that the GGAAGG haplotype in 
FABP3×LTF×ANXA9 interaction may be a robust genetic marker concerning both milk 
fat yield and percentage. Consequently, the genotype combinations highlighted in 
this study serve as novel and efficient markers for assessing the fat content in 
cow's milk.

DOI: 10.1080/10495398.2024.2396421
PMID: 39222128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Food Allergy. 2020 Sep 1;2(1):3-6. doi: 10.2500/jfa.2020.2.200022.
eCollection  2020 Sep.

Classification of adverse food reactions.

Cox AL(1), Sicherer SH(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Pediatrics, Jaffe Food Allergy Institute, Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.

Foods can induce adverse reactions by a variety of mechanisms. An understanding 
of the characteristic signs and symptoms and the related mechanisms of adverse 
food reactions allows the clinician to efficiently diagnose and treat patients. 
Adverse reactions to foods can be classified based on whether there is a 
nonimmunologic or immunologic basis for symptoms. Food intolerance, or a 
nonimmunologic reaction, includes a range of responses to foods that result 
primarily from an individual's intrinsic inability to metabolize a component of 
the food, e.g., lactose sugar in dairy products. Other nonimmunologic adverse 
reactions may be attributed to food toxins or pharmacologic properties 
pharmacologic properties of foods themselves. Immunologic adverse reactions, in 
contrast, involve immune responses to food and are termed food allergy. Food 
allergy may further be categorized based on the underlying immunopathophysiology 
as immunoglobulin E (IgE) mediated, non-IgE mediated, or cell mediated. Some 
chronic allergic responses involve a combination of immune mechanisms. This 
review provides a general classification system for adverse food reactions and 
describes specificconditions.

Copyright © 2020, The Author(s). Published by OceanSide Publications, Inc., 
U.S.A.

DOI: 10.2500/jfa.2020.2.200022
PMCID: PMC11250527
PMID: 39022138

Conflict of interest statement: S.H. Sicherer reports royalty payments from 
UpToDate and from Johns Hopkins University Press; grants to his institution from 
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, from Food Allergy 
Research and Education, and from HAL Allergy; and personal fees from the 
American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology as Deputy Editor of the 
Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology: In Practice, outside of the 
submitted work. A.L. Cox has no conflicts of interest to declare pertaining to 
this article