1. J Asthma. 2025 May 16:1-9. doi: 10.1080/02770903.2025.2499833. Online ahead of
 print.

Enhancing the nutraceutical and nutritional features of wheat germ to reduce 
atopic asthma symptoms in children.

Bayiroglu F(1), Erdonmez N(2), Aydin L(1), Kaya MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physiology, Ankara Yıldırım Beyazıt 
University, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Pediatric Immunology and Allergy, University of Health 
Sciences, Dr. Sami Ulus Maternity and Child Health Training and Research 
Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: The rise in childhood asthma has increased interest in nutraceutical 
treatment options such as specific nutritional supplements, as medical 
treatments may not always produce the desired results. Despite treatment, 
between 30 and 50% of children with asthma do not attain adequate control.
OBJECTIVES: For the first time, the effects of adding fermented wheat germ to 
the daily diet of children with atopic asthma on respiratory function-related 
disease symptoms, serum IgE, and eosinophil levels were studied.
METHODS: The study comprised 52 patients (control group n = 26, experimental 
group n = 26) aged 12-18 years with a clear diagnosis of atopic asthma. The 
experimental group consumed 100 g of fermented wheat bread with 5% wheat germ 
every day for three months, while the control group consumed standard bread. The 
groups were assessed at baseline and at the end of each month with spirometry 
(FVC, FEV1, PEF), serum eosinophil and IgE measurements, and the application of 
the Asthma Control Test (ACT) scale.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the control and 
experimental groups in terms of any measurement. The experimental group had 
significant increases in PEF (p < 0.05), FVC, and IgE levels (p < 0.001) 
compared to monthly measurements. Both groups showed statistically significant 
improvements in ACT and FEV1 (p < 0.001). Nonetheless, the control and 
experimental groups showed no significant difference in time-dependent 
eosinophil levels (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the inclusion of fermented wheat germ to asthmatic 
children's diets has been shown to improve PEF and IgE levels, these findings 
require further investigation.

DOI: 10.1080/02770903.2025.2499833
PMID: 40372023


2. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep. 2025 Apr 28;25(1):22. doi:
10.1007/s11882-025-01204-x.

Occupational Respiratory Allergy to Flour in the Modern Era.

Vandenplas O(1), Doyen V(2), Raulf M(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire UCL Namur, Department of Chest Medicine, 
Université Catholique de Louvain, Yvoir, Namur, Belgium. 
olivier.vandenplas@chuuclnamur.uclouvain.be.
(2)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire UCL Namur, Department of Chest Medicine, 
Université Catholique de Louvain, Yvoir, Namur, Belgium.
(3)Institute of Prevention and Occupational Medicine of the German Social 
Accident Insurance, Institute of the Ruhr-University Bochum (IPA), Bochum, 
Germany.

PURPOSE OF THE REVIEW: A comprehensive literature review was conducted in order 
to identify and summarize recent research on IgE-mediated occupational 
respiratory allergy to flour, focusing on the impact of modern developments in 
the baking industry characterized by industrialization of production processes 
and a growing use of baking "improvers".
RECENT FINDINGS: Although respiratory allergy to flour is a potentially 
preventable condition through effective workplace control measures, available 
data indicate that exposure to flour dust has not decreased in the last decade 
and flour remains the most prevalent cause of occupational respiratory allergy. 
The development of the baking industry has led to the introduction of new 
allergen sources, although their contribution to the development of clinical 
respiratory allergy remains largely uncertain. In recent years, the diagnostic 
performance of serum-specific IgE antibody determination against wheat/rye flour 
and α-amylase compared with specific inhalation challenge with flour as the 
reference standard has been clarified, making these tests a first-line component 
of diagnostic algorithms. Available information on the prevalence and incidence 
of respiratory allergy to flour in recent decades indicates that this condition 
still imposes a substantial health and socioeconomic burden worldwide. Available 
data highlight the need to reinforce workplace health-related policies and 
regulations.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11882-025-01204-x
PMID: 40289031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Human and Animal Rights and 
Informed Consent: All reported studies with human subjects performed by the 
authors have been previously published and complied with all applicable ethical 
standards (including the Declaration of Helsinki and its amendments, 
institutional/national research committee standards, and 
international/national/institutional guidelines). Competing Interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


3. Clin Exp Allergy. 2025 Apr 14. doi: 10.1111/cea.70055. Online ahead of print.

Circulating Food Allergen-Specific Antibodies, Beyond IgG4, Are Elevated in 
Eosinophilic Esophagitis.

Bel Imam M(1), Iwasaki S(1), Lems S(1), Cevhertas L(1), Westermann P(1), Larsen 
LB(2), Poulsen NA(2), Akdis M(1), Schreiner P(3), Kreienbühl A(4), Straumann 
A(4), Schoepfer AM(5), Biedermann L(4), van de Veen W(1); Swiss EoE Cohort Study 
Group.

Collaborators: Aepli P, Biral R, Blanchard C, Botteselle L, Buetikofer S, Burri 
E, Diebold J, Eckhold A, Franke A, Frei M, Greuter T, Hasler C, Jochum W, 
Kilchmann T, Koller S, Murray F, Netzer P, Reichhart G, Ristorcelli E, Rogler G, 
Rossel JB, Safroneeva E, Saner C, Schlag C, Senn JD, Sempoux C, Simon D, Simon 
HU, Trelle S, Weber A, Willi N, Zwahlen M.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Food Science, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine 
III, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Zurich, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire 
Vaudois, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a chronic inflammatory condition 
with an incompletely understood immuno-pathogenesis involving a T2 response. EoE 
is triggered by food allergens although, unlike IgE-mediated allergies, it 
exhibits high IgG4 levels in oesophageal biopsies and in circulation. We 
investigated whether other antibody isotypes specific for food allergens are 
elevated in EoE and vary with disease activity.
METHODS: Plasma samples from patients with active EoE (n = 51), inactive EoE 
(n = 82) and non-EoE controls (n = 14) were analysed for food-specific IgG and 
IgA subclasses against casein, whey, wheat, egg and individual cow's milk 
allergens by ELISA. α-lactalbumin (Bos d 4)- and β-lactoglobulin (Bos d 
5)-specific B cells were measured by flow cytometry in a subset of patients.
RESULTS: Food allergen-specific antibodies in the plasma varied across EoE 
subgroups and non-EoE controls. Elevated IgG4 in EoE patients confirmed a strong 
antibody response to food allergens, including casein, wheat and egg. αS1-casein 
(Bos d 9)-specific IgG, IgG2, IgG4, IgA1 and IgA2 differed between EoE and 
non-EoE controls and between active and inactive EoE. β-casein (Bos d 11, A1 
variant) measurements showed higher levels of specific IgG2 and IgG4 in both EoE 
groups, whereas whey-derived allergens showed opposing responses: Bos d 4 
responses favoured IgG4, and Bos d 5 responses were elevated across multiple IgG 
and IgA subclasses in EoE. Allergen-specific B cells could not be isolated from 
the circulation.
CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal distinct antibody profiles in EoE plasma, with 
elevated IgG and IgA subclasses beyond IgG4, highlighting a complex immune 
response to food allergens. Differential antibody responses support their 
clinical relevance in dietary management strategies, while the absence of 
allergen-specific B cells in circulation likely restricts antibody production to 
the inflamed oesophagus. Future research should explore whether these antibody 
profiles can guide personalised treatment and novel therapeutic targets in EoE.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cea.70055
PMID: 40230181


4. Environ Res. 2025 Apr 10;277:121583. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2025.121583. Online
 ahead of print.

Associations between agricultural use of pyrethroid insecticides and asthma: 
AGRICAN cohort results.

Baldi I(1), de Graaf L(2), Bureau M(2), Tual S(3), Douwes J(4), Lebailly P(5).

Author information:
(1)Univ. Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Centre, EPICENE 
Team, UMR 1219, F-33000, Bordeaux, France; Service Santé Travail Environnement, 
Pôle de Santé Publique, CHU de Bordeaux, 33000, Bordeaux, France. Electronic 
address: Isabelle.Baldi@u-bordeaux.fr.
(2)Univ. Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Centre, EPICENE 
Team, UMR 1219, F-33000, Bordeaux, France.
(3)INSERM, UMR1086 ANTICIPE, Cancers et Préventions, Centre François Baclesse, 
Caen, France.
(4)Research Centre for Hauora and Health, Massey University, Wellington, New 
Zealand.
(5)INSERM, UMR1086 ANTICIPE, Cancers et Préventions, Centre François Baclesse, 
Caen, France; Université Caen Normandie, Caen, France.

RATIONALE: Following the withdrawal of organochlorines and organophosphates, 
pyrethroids have become the most used insecticides in both agricultural and 
domestic settings.
OBJECTIVES: We analyzed data from the French AGRICAN agricultural cohort to 
assess associations of occupational pyrethroid exposures and 
allergic/non-allergic asthma.
METHODS: At enrollment, asthma diagnosed by a doctor was reported by 11 815 
participants (7028 classified as non-allergic and 4458 as allergic based on the 
presence of eczema and/or hay fever). Individual exposures to 17 pyrethroids 
were defined in 124 992 participants, based on a combination of the history of 
pesticide treatment of 11 crops (grassland, vineyard, wheat/barley, corn, field 
peas, potatoes, tobacco, beets, sunflower, rape, fruits) and a crop-exposure 
matrix.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In men, no association was observed for any of 
the pyrethroids regardless of asthma phenotype. In contrast, in ever-exposed 
women, asthma risk was increased with use of any pyrethroid, both for allergic 
(+80 %) and non-allergic asthma (+40 %). Highest increases were observed for 
allergic asthma with fenpropathrin (OR = 2.00; 95 %CI:1.38-2.90), tralomethrin 
(OR = 1.81; 95 %CI:1.28-2.56), fenvalerate (OR = 1.81; 95 %CI:1.38-2.38), 
permethrin (OR = 1.78; 95 %CI:1.26-2.50) and deltamethrin (OR = 1.76; 
95 %CI:1.35-2.29). Stratified analyses on women who reported living on a farm in 
early life showed stronger associations for non-allergic asthma. For women who 
reported early life living on vineyards associations with pyrethroids were 
stronger for both allergic and non-allergic asthma. Associations for women who 
lived on cattle farms were reduced for some pyrethroids.
CONCLUSION: Occupational pyrethroid exposure was positively associated with both 
allergic and non-allergic asthma in women but not in men.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2025.121583
PMID: 40220893

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Front Allergy. 2025 Feb 4;5:1488857. doi: 10.3389/falgy.2024.1488857. 
eCollection 2024.

Isotype diversity of antibodies specific for component allergens in the context 
of allergic diseases: eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), asthma, and the alpha-gal 
syndrome (AGS).

Platts-Mills TAE(1), MacCallum MH(1), Wilson JM(1), Workman LJ(1), Erwin EA(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy & Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, University 
of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, United States.
(2)Department of Allergy at Nationwide Children's Hospital, Ohio State 
University College of Medicine, Columbus, OH, United States.

From the earliest days of studying the reagins in allergic sera that give rise 
to the Prausnitz-Kuestner reaction, there was evidence that there were other 
types of antibodies (Ab) specific for allergens, particularly those induced by 
immunotherapy. By 1980, not only was IgE recognized and could be measured, but 
the presence of other isotypes including IgG and IgA in patients with IgE was 
well established. From that time onwards the development of monoclonal 
antibodies made it possible to distinguish and measure antibodies of other 
isotypes such as IgG4, IgG2, and IgG3. Over the past 40 years two things have 
dominated the field- firstly, the techniques for measuring isotype specific 
antibodies to allergens have improved steadily. Secondly, several different 
allergic diseases or phenomena have been identified in which isotype diversity 
of the antibodies has become a major issue. Prior to 1990 only occasional cases 
of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) had been identified, but since then they have 
become common. Most of the cases have positive skin tests and/or IgE Ab to cow's 
milk or wheat, but it became obvious that most cases of EoE are not primarily 
related to IgE. Today it is clear that IgG4 Ab to these allergens play a 
significant role in cases of EoE. In 2000 the first reports of children 
developing tolerance to cat allergen appeared. Today it is clear that this 
tolerance depends on high levels of IgG4 antibodies and there is increasing 
evidence that the IgG4 response is primarily against Fel d 1. The most recent 
novel allergic disease is the alpha-gal syndrome (AGS). This condition is based 
on IgE antibodies specific for the oligosaccharide galactose 
alpha,1-3-galactose, which are primarily induced by tick bites. However, in this 
case it was already well known that all immunocompetent primates have made IgG 
and IgM antibodies to this oligosaccharide. Furthermore, it is not clear whether 
the IgG isotypes, particularly IgG1 and IgG3, play a role in the inflammatory 
response to the oligosaccharide. Overall, it is clear that current and future 
investigation of allergic diseases requires careful assessment of allergen 
specific antibodies of diverse isotypes in addition to IgE.

© 2025 Platts-Mills, MacCallum, Wilson, Workman and Erwin.

DOI: 10.3389/falgy.2024.1488857
PMCID: PMC11832665
PMID: 39968192

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


6. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2024 Dec 6;58(12):1894-1901. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20240701-00524.

[Analysis of the sensitization characteristics and changes trend of common 
allergens in a hospital of pediatric in Beijing City from 2019 to 2023].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhang XD(1), Li QL(2), Xiang L(1), Jiang NN(1), Li Z(1), Huang HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Allergy, National Clinical Research Center for Respiratory 
Diseases, Key Laboratory of Major Diseases in Children, Ministry of Education, 
Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Center for 
Children's Health, Beijing100045, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory Center, Beijing Children's Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, National Center for Children's Health, 
Beijing100045, China.

Objective: This study aimed to analyze the test results and changing trend of 
specific IgE (sIgE) for common allergens in children in the hospital from 2019 
to 2023, so as to provide a basis for the diagnosis and treatment of allergic 
diseases in children. Methods: The test results of children who were admitted to 
Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical University and underwent serum 
allergen sIgE quantitative detection (Immuno CAP system) from January 1, 2019 to 
December 31, 2023 were retrospectively included. According to the allergen type, 
the allergens were divided into food allergens and inhaled allergens (dust mite 
group, mold group, animal dander group and pollen group). The trends in sIgE 
positive rates across different years, age-related differences, and monthly 
distribution characteristics were analyzed. Results: A total of 44 633 allergen 
sIgE quantitative test results were included in the study. Among them, 23 024 
samples were tested for food allergen sIgE and 21 609 samples were tested for 
inhaled allergen sIgE. The positive rates of food allergens (egg white, milk, 
wheat, peanut, soybean, shrimp) sIgE increased year by year, and the differences 
were statistically significant (χ2=97.3, 78.9, 95.6, 122.4, 84.7, 24.5, 
P<0.001). The positive rate of inhaled allergen sIgE also increased year by 
year, and the difference was statistically significant (χ2=36.2, 326.2, 432.2, 
973.2, P<0.001). There were significant differences in the sensitization 
patterns of food and inhaled allergens among different age groups. The most 
common food allergen was egg white in infant group (<1 year old) (23.0%), milk 
in young children group (1-2 years old) (40.7%), and egg white in preschool 
group (3-6 years old) (28.8%). Peanut was the most common allergen in school-age 
group (7-12 years old) and adolescent group (13-18 years old) (16.9% and 14.1%, 
respectively). Among the inhaled allergens, animal dander (3.6%) was the most 
common allergen in the infant group (<1 year old), and mold (15.3%) was the most 
common allergen in the young child group (1-2 years old). The most common 
allergens in preschool group (3-6 years old), school-age group (7-12 years old) 
and adolescent group (13-18 years old) were pollen (39.7%, 53.0%, 53.5%). There 
were significant differences in the positive rates of inhaled allergens (dust 
mite, mold, animal dander, pollen) sIgE in the 12 months of 2023 (χ2=26.9, 26.7, 
56.7, 55.5, P=0.005, 0.005,<0.001,<0.001). The positive rate of pollen sIgE was 
the highest, with peaks in April (54.8%) and September (60.5%). The positive 
rate of sIgE for molds peaks in June (46.4%). Conclusion: The trends in sIgE 
levels among children visiting Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, from 2019 to 2023, suggests to a certain extent that the prevalence 
of allergic diseases among children in Beijing City is increasing annually. 
There were significant age differences in sIgE sensitization patterns among 
children of different ages, and the distribution of sIgE positive rates for 
inhaled allergens was also different in different months. In clinical practice, 
the allergen test report is interpreted comprehensively according to the 
patient's medical history, age, visit month and other factors.

Publisher: 目的： 分析2019—2023年医院就诊儿童常见过敏原特异性IgE（specific 
IgE，sIgE）检测结果及变化趋势，旨在为儿童过敏性疾病诊疗提供依据和参考。 方法： 
回顾性纳入2019年1月1日至2023年12月31日在首都医科大学附属北京儿童医院就诊并进行血清过敏原sIgE定量检测（Immuno 
CAP系统）的患儿的检测结果，按照过敏原类型将过敏原分为食物过敏原和吸入过敏原（尘螨组、霉菌组、动物皮屑组和花粉组）。分析过敏原sIgE阳性率在不同年份的变化趋势，年龄差异性及月份分布特征。统计学方法组间比较采用χ2检验或Fisher确切概率法。 
结果： 研究共纳入44 633例次过敏原sIgE定量检测结果。其中食物过敏原sIgE定量检测23 024例次，吸入过敏原sIgE定量检测21 
609例次。食物过敏原（鸡蛋白、牛奶、小麦、花生、大豆、虾）过敏原sIgE阳性率均呈逐年上升趋势，差异有统计学意义（χ2=97.3、78.9、95.6、122.4、84.7、24.5，P<0.001）。吸入过敏原sIgE阳性率亦呈逐年上升趋势，差异有统计学意义（χ2=36.2、326.2、432.2、973.2，P<0.001）。不同年龄组间食物和吸入过敏原致敏模式存在明显差异。食物过敏原中，婴儿组（<1岁）首位致敏过敏原为鸡蛋白（23.0%），幼儿组（1~2岁）首位致敏过敏原为牛奶（40.7%），学龄前组（3~6岁）首位致敏过敏原为鸡蛋白（28.8%），学龄组（7~12岁）和青春期组（13~18岁）首位致敏过敏原为花生（16.9%、14.1%）。吸入过敏原中，婴儿组（<1岁）最常见致敏过敏原为动物皮屑（3.6%），幼儿组（1~2岁）最常见致敏过敏原为霉菌（15.3%），学龄前组（3~6岁）、学龄组（7~12岁）、青春期组（13~18岁）最常见致敏过敏原为花粉（39.7%、53.0%、53.5%）。2023年12个月份吸入过敏原（尘螨、霉菌、动物皮屑、花粉）sIgE阳性率差异均有统计学意义（χ2=26.9、26.7、56.7、55.5，P=0.005、0.005、<0.001、<0.001）。花粉sIgE阳性率最高，在4月份（54.8%）和9月份（60.5%）存在高峰。霉菌sIgE阳性率在6月份（46.4%）存在高峰。 
结论： 
2019—2023年首都医科大学附属北京儿童医院就诊儿童的过敏原sIgE变化趋势在一定程度上提示北京地区儿童过敏性疾病患病率呈逐年升高趋势。不同年龄儿童的过敏原sIgE致敏模式存在显著年龄差异，不同月份的吸入过敏原sIgE阳性率分布亦有不同。临床实践中应根据病史结合患者年龄、就诊月份等因素，综合解读过敏原检测报告。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20240701-00524
PMID: 39710467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Allergol Select. 2024 Nov 28;8:407-424. doi: 10.5414/ALX02543E. eCollection 
2024.

Occupational anaphylaxis: A Position Paper of the German Society of Allergology 
and Clinical Immunology (DGAKI).

Treudler R(1), Worm M(2), Bauer A(3), Dickel H(4), Heine G(5), Jappe U(6), 
Klimek L(7), Raulf M(8), Wedi B(9), Wieczorek D(9), Francuzik W(2), Jakob T(10), 
Pfaar O(11), Ring J(12), Rueff F(13), Schnadt S(14), Werfel T(9), Wurpts G(15), 
Zarnowski J(16), Zuberbier T(1)(17), Brockow K(12).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Allergology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate 
Member of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate member of Freie Universität Berlin and 
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University AllergyCenter, University Hospital Carl 
Gustav Carus, Technical University Dresden, Dresden.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, St. Josef Hospital, 
University Medical Center, Ruhr University Bochum, Bochum.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergy, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, Kiel.
(6)Division of Clinical and Molecular Allergology, Research Center Borstel, 
Airway Research, Center North (ARCN), Member of the German Center for Lung 
Research, Borstel, Interdisciplinary Allergy Outpatient Clinic, Department of 
Pneumology, University of Luebeck.
(7)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Universitätsmedizin 
Mainz, Mainz and Center for Rhinology and Allergology, Wiesbaden.
(8)Department of Allergology/Immunology; Institute for Prevention and 
Occupational Medicine of the German Social Accident Insurance, Institute of the 
Ruhr-University Bochum (IPA), Bochum, Germany.
(9)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, Comprehensive Allergy Center, Hannover 
Medical School, Hannover.
(10)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, University Medical Center Giessen 
(UKGM), Justus-Liebig-University Giessen, Giessen.
(11)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Section of 
Rhinology and Allergy, University Hospital Marburg, Philipps-Universität 
Marburg, Marburg.
(12)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Biederstein, School of Medicine and 
Health, Technical University of Munich TUM).
(13)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Munich.
(14)German Allergy and Asthma Association (DAAB), Mönchengladbach.
(15)Clinic for Dermatology and Allergology, Aachen Comprehensive Allergy Center 
(ACAC), University Hospital of RWTH Aachen University, Aachen.
(16)Department of Dermatology, Venerology and Allergology, University of Leipzig 
Medical Center, Leipzig, and.
(17)Fraunhofer Institute for Translational Medicine and Pharmacology ITMP, 
Immunology and Allergology, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Anaphylaxis is a systemic allergic reaction that is potentially 
life-threatening. Occupational anaphylaxis is an anaphylaxis that occurs in an 
occupational context. In this position paper, we propose diagnostic criteria for 
occupational anaphylaxis and provide an overview of the current state of 
knowledge in terms of prevalence, triggers, prevention, and management.
RESULTS: The most common triggers of occupational anaphylaxis include 
Hymenoptera venoms, followed by food and drugs. Chemicals, bites or contact with 
animals (mammals/snakes/insects) and natural rubber latex are far less common. 
Occupations at risk for occupational anaphylaxis are therefore beekeepers, 
outdoor workers, or those who handle food as well as healthcare workers. The 
route of contact, intensity, and frequency of exposure, type of allergen, and 
the simultaneous occurrence of co-factors determine the clinical manifestation. 
A detailed medical history is required to confirm the diagnosis of anaphylaxis 
and to identify the trigger. Both skin tests and the determination of specific 
IgE are recommended, but only very few commercially available and quality-tested 
allergens are available that can be examined using both test methods. Preventive 
measures are based on avoiding further exposure or, if necessary, replacing a 
working substance. A written emergency plan and the prescription of an 
adrenaline autoinjector as well as instructions for its use are mandatory. 
Allergen immunotherapy is recommended for systemic Hymenoptera venom allergy. 
Depending on the national healthcare systems, patients with occupational 
anaphylaxis must be reported to the accident insurance.
CONCLUSION: Occupational anaphylaxis is very rare. We recommend educational 
measures and generally standardized recording of occupational anaphylaxis for 
occupations with an increased risk of anaphylaxis.

© Dustri-Verlag Dr. K. Feistle.

DOI: 10.5414/ALX02543E
PMCID: PMC11629776
PMID: 39659712

Conflict of interest statement: RT received research support from Sanofi-Genzyme 
and the Hautnetz Leipzig/Westsachsen e.V. as well as fees for lectures and 
consultations from AbbVie, Allmirall, ALK-Abello, LeoPharma, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Sanofi-Genzyme, Viatris and support for congress visit from CSL-Behring; all 
outside this paper. She is head of working group “Anaphylaxis” of the German 
Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (DGAKI). MW reports support for 
consultancies, lectures, and other scientific activities from ALK-Abelló 
Arzneimittel GmbH, Abbvie, Eli Lilly, Mylan Germany GmbH, Bencard Allergie GmbH, 
Novartis AG, Biotest AG, Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, HAL Allergie GmbH, DBV 
Technologies S.A, Aimmune Therapeutics UK Limited, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, 
Inc, Stallergenes GmbH. AB reports support for lectures, consultancies, and 
project funding by Abbvie, Almirall, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biofrontera, Blueberry 
Therapeutics, Celldex, Centogene, Escient, Galderma, Genentec, Incyte, Jasper, 
Leo, Lilly, Phavaris, L’Oreal, Novartis, Regeneron, Sanofi, Shire, Takeda. HD 
reports support for consultancies, lectures, and other scientific activities 
from LEO Pharma GmbH, Novartis Pharma GmbH, and Stallergenes GmbH, not 
concerning the contents of the manuscript. GH reports personal fees for 
consultancies or lectures from Abbvie, Allergopharma, ALK-Abelló, Biotest, Eli 
Lilly, Leti, Novartis, Sanofi, all outside of this work. UJ has received hotel 
accommodation and meals for a lecture and for leading a workshop organized by 
ALK Abello. The fee went to the organization, the RCB. In addition, another 
hotel night and dinner were recently provided by ALK Abello. Her research on 
molecular allergology is funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and 
Science, the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture (BMEL), the German 
Research Foundation, and the Kanert Foundation, all outside the topic of this 
article. The Federal Ministry of Technology, Economics and Technology has funded 
their research on assays for the detection of anti-drug antibodies via the 
AiF-ZIM program. LK reports grants and/or personal fees from Allergopharma, MEDA 
/ Mylan, HAL Allergie, ALK Abelló, LETI Pharma, Stallergenes, Quintiles, Sanofi, 
ASIT Biotech, Lofarma, Allergy Therapeut., AstraZeneca, GSK, Inmunotk, and 
Cassela med outside the submitted work; and memberships: AeDA, DGHNO, German 
Academy of Allergology and Clinical Immunology, HNO-BV, GPA, EAACI. MR received 
fees for lectures from Alk-Abelló Arzneimittel GmbH, Berufsverband Deutscher 
Baubiologen VDB e.V, Haus der Technik, LetiPharma, ThermoFisher Scientific 
(Phadia). With regard to the content of this article, there are no conflicts of 
interest that could arise from an employment relationship, benefits for 
lectures, or other activities. BW reports support for one-day advisory boards 
and/or lectures and/or other scientific acitivities by ALK-Scherax, Bencard, 
Biocryst, CSL Behring, Kalvista, Novartis, Sanofi, Takeda, all outside the 
submitted work. OP reports grants and/or personal fees from ALK-Abelló, Almirall 
S.A., Allergopharma, Stallergenes Greer, HAL Allergy Holding B.V./HAL Allergie 
GmbH, Bencard Allergie GmbH/Allergy Therapeutics, Lofarma, ASIT Biotech Tools 
S.A., Laboratorios LETI/LETI Pharma, GlaxoSmithKline, ROXALL Medizin, Novartis, 
Sanofi-Aventis and Sanofi-Genzyme, Med Update Europe GmbH, streamedup! GmbH, 
Pohl-Boskamp, Inmunotek S.L., John Wiley and Sons, AS, Paul-Martini-Stiftung 
(PMS), Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., RG Aerztefortbildung, Institut für 
Disease Management, Springer GmbH, AstraZeneca, IQVIA Commercial, Ingress 
Health, Wort&Bild Verlag, Verlag ME, Procter&Gamble, ALTAMIRA, Meinhardt 
Congress GmbH, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Thieme, Deutsche AllergieLiga 
e.V., AeDA, Alfried-Krupp Krankenhaus, Red Maple Trials Inc., Königlich 
Dänisches Generalkonsulat, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, ECM 
Expro&Conference Management, Technische Universität Dresden, Lilly, Paul Ehrlich 
Institut (PEI), Japanese Society of Allergy, Forum für Medizinische Fortbildung, 
Dustri Verlag, all outside the submitted work and within the last 36 months; and 
he is Vice President of EAACI and member of EAACI Excom, member of external 
board of directors DGAKI; coordinator, main or co-author of different position 
papers and guidelines in rhinology, allergology, and allergen-immunotherapy and 
Associate Editor of the journal(s) Allergy and Clinical Translational Allergy 
(CTA). JR has received honoraria for consulting and lectures from Sanofi, 
Viatris, Allergika, AbbVie, Pfizer. SS reports support for consultancy and 
lectures from Mylan Germany, DBV Technologies S.A., Aimmune Therapeutics, all 
outside this paper. TW reports support for consultancy, lectures, and other 
scientific activities from AbbVie, ALK Abello, Almirall, Astellas, Bencard, 
Galderma, Janssen/JNJ, Leo Pharma, Leti, Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Regeneron/Sanofi, Stallergenes. TZ reports support for consultations, lectures 
and other scientific activities by AstraZeneca, AbbVie, ALK, Almirall, Astellas, 
Bayer Health Care, Bencard, Berlin Chemie, FAES, HAL, Henkel, Kryolan, Leti, 
Lofarma, L’Oreal, Meda, Menarini, Merck, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, 
Sanoflore, Stallergenes, Takeda, Teva, UCB as well as responsible participation 
in the following organizations: Committee member, WHO initiative ‘Allergic 
Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma’ (ARIA), Member of the Board, German Society 
for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (DGAKI), Head, European Centre for Allergy 
Research Foundation (ECARF), Secretary General, Global Allergy and Asthma 
European Network (GA2LEN), Member, Committee on Allergy Diagnosis and Molecular 
Allergology, World Allergy Organization (WAO). KB reports support for 
consultancies, lectures, and other scientific activities from ALK-Abelló 
Arzneimittel GmbH, Bencard Allergie GmbH, Novartis AG, HAL Allergie GmbH, DBV 
Technologies S.A, ThermoFisher, all outside of this paper. DW, WF, TJ, FR, GW, 
JZ have no conflict of interest. Table 1.Criteria for the diagnosis of 
anaphylaxis according to Sampson et al. [4]. Anaphylaxis is highly likely when 
any one of three criteria are fulfilled:1.Acute onset of an illness (minutes to 
several hours) with involvement of the skin, mucosal tissue, or both (e.g., 
generalized hives, pruritus, or flushing, swollen lips-tongue-uvula)and at least 
one of the following   a.Respiratory compromise (e.g., dyspnea, 
wheeze-bronchospasm, stridor, reduced peak expiratory flow (PEF), 
hypoxemia)   b.Reduced blood pressure (BP) or associated symptoms of end-organ 
dysfunction (e.g., hypotension (collapse), syncope, incontinence)2.Two or more 
of the following that occur rapidly after exposure to a likely allergen for that 
patient (minutes to several hours):   a.Involvement of the skin-mucosal tissue 
(e.g., generalized hives, itch-flush, swollen lips-tongue-uvula)   b.Respiratory 
compromise (e.g., dyspnea, wheeze-bronchospasm, stridor, reduced PEF, 
hypoxemia)   c.Reduced BP or associated symptoms (e.g., hypotension (collapse), 
syncope, incontinence)   d.Persistent gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., crampy 
abdominal pain, vomiting)3.Reduced BP after exposure to known allergen for that 
patient (minutes to several hours):   a.Infants and children: low systolic BP 
(age specific) or greater than 30% decrease in systolic BP*   b.Adults: systolic 
BP of less than 90 mmHg or greater than 30% decrease from that person’s 
baseline*Low systolic blood pressure for children is defined as less than 70 
mmHg from 1 month to 1 year, less than (70 mmHg + [2 × age]) from 1 to 10 years, 
and less than 90 mmHg from 11 to 17 years. Table 2.Diagnostic criteria for 
classification of occupational anaphylaxis. Sensitization at workplace 
probableAnaphylaxis at workplaceClassification as occupational 
anaphylaxisExampleYesYesYesInsect allergy in beekeepers Food allergy in cooks or 
in workers in food service sector and in food industryYesNoYesDrug allergy in 
healthcare workers (e.g., reaction when receiving antibiotic)No/unknownYesYes, 
if allergen source belongs to typical work materialFood allergy in cooks or in 
workers in food service sector and in food industryNo/unknownYesYes, if 
sensitization at workplace is probable even if allergen source does not belong 
to typical work materialInsect allergy in forest workersNo/unknownYesNo, if 
allergen contact is attributable to private activitiesFood consumption at work 
during break time Table 3.Selected workplaces with possible elicitors of 
occupational anaphylaxis. Workplace/OccupationPossible elicitorsHealthcare 
workerDrugs, natural rubber latex, chemicalsBeekeeper, gardener, green house 
worker, sales assistant in bakeries and confectioneriesInsect venomFood 
production and processingAnimal and vegetable food (inhalation, ingestion/skin 
contact)Hunter, rangerAlpha-GAL in meat, insect venomLaboratory workerChemicals, 
animal bites/contact Table 4.Important aspects for history taking in 
occupational allergy [10, 11]. Allergen exposureExposure at the workplace or 
outsideRoute of exposureFrequency of exposureType of allergenPotential 
cofactorsPhysical activity, exerciseAlcoholStressAcute infectionsConcurrent 
medications (i.e., beta-blocker, angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors)Predisposing individual risk factorsOlder ageIncreased levels of 
basal tryptase, mastocytosisUncontrolled AsthmaCardiovascular diseaseSex Table 
5.Animal- and plant-derived elicitors of occupational anaphylaxis. 
AllergenOccupation/WorkplaceReferenceAnimal-derived food allergens   SushiCook 
Truck driver[24, 25]   SeafoodCook[22]   AnisakisFish monger, 
supermarket#[26]   Cow’s milkDairy industry[27]   Donkey’s milkFood 
laboratory[28]   Quail eggPoultry worker[29]   OysterOyster mushroom 
farmer[30]   Red meat/alpha-GALForest service employee, hunter§, cattle worker, 
cook[18, 20, 31]Plant-derived food allergens   Avocado, banana, chestnut, 
manioc, and othersHealthcare worker with sensitization to natural rubber latex 
as cross reaction[21, 
32]   BuckwheatCook[33]   BroccoliCook[24]   ChicoryCook[34]   CorianderSpice 
grinder[35, 36]   PaprikaSpice and condiment seller[37]   SunflowerSunflower 
processing worker[38]   TamarilloCarpenter with sensitization to obeche wood as 
cross reaction[39]Wheat flourCook #[24] #Generalized urticaria; §no clinical 
reactions given in detail) [20]. Table 6.Drugs as elicitors in occupational 
anaphylaxis. Group of 
allergen/elicitorAllergenOccupation/workplaceReferenceAntibioticsPencillin 
Cefotiam Piperacillin-tazobactam Isoniazid RifapentinHealthcare workers[40, 41, 
42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49]DisinfectantsChlorhexidine Povidone Iodine 
Polyhexanide Chloramine Chlorocresol/chloroxylenolHealthcare workers Butchery 
Carer[52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 72]LaxativePsylliumHealthcare 
workers[59]Allergen immunotherapeuticTimothy grassHealthcare 
worker[60]Coronavirus vaccinesIn question; direct complement 
activation?Healthcare workers[63, 64, 66]Narcotic agentsSuccinylcholine 
Neuromuscular blocking agents (several)Healthcare worker Hair dresser 
Cleaner[61, 62] Table 7.Chemicals as elicitors of occupational anaphylaxis. 
Elicitor/AllergenApplicationWorkplace/occupationReferenceChlorothalonilFungicideGreenhouse[74]Iridium 
chlorideChemicalElectrochemistry[75]Cobalt chloridePaintCeramic 
decorator[76]Polyethylene glycolsExcipients, solventsPainter[79]Chromium 
vaporChemicalWelder[80]BenzonitrileIntermediate for chemicalsChemical 
industry[81]HexafluorophosphatesCoupling reagentsLaboratory worker[82]Methyl 
methacrylateAdhesiveHealthcare worker[84]PerfumesCosmeticsHealthcare worker[85, 
86]PersulfatesBleachingsHair dresser[87, 88, 89]Hair/textile dyes 
(2,4-toluylenediamine/Lanasol Yellow 4G)ColoringsHair dresser, textile 
industry[90, 91] Table 8.Animals (bites/contact) as elicitors of occupational 
anaphylaxis. 
Elicitor/allergenContactWorkplace/occupationReferenceRodents   RatBiteLaboratory[106]   MouseBiteLaboratory[107]   Rat, 
mouseBites (N = 2)Laboratory[108]   RabbitNeedle injury after contact to rabbit 
tissueResearch physician[109]Snakes   Different snake venomsBites (n = 3)Outdoor 
worker[110]   ViperBiteResearch laboratory[111]     Atractaspis corpulentaDeath 
after bite, anaphylaxis suspected (reaction to antivenom was not ruled 
out)Mechanical foreman[112]     Bothrops spp.BiteHerpetologist1[113]     
Bothrops moojeniBiteViper farm[114]Insects     Rhiphicephalus spp.Tick 
biteGoatherd[115]     Bruchus pisorumInhalation of dust of peas infested by B. 
pisorumFarmer[116]     Thaumetopoea pityocampa2Skin contactPine/oak or resin 
collectors/ woodcutters Farmers/Stockbreeders Farmers/stockbreeders[117]     
Thaumetopoea pityocampa2Skin contactPine-resin worker[118]     Thaumetopoea 
pityocampa2Skin contactForest[119]     Glossina morsitans3BiteLaboratory[120] 
1Experts working with amphibians and reptiles; 2processionary caterpillar; 
3tsetse fly. Table 9.Summarized recommendations for management of occupational 
anaphylaxis 1.Improved diagnostic criteria for classification of occupational 
anaphylaxis have to consider that   a.sensitization may take place at the 
workplace or outside the workplace (e.g., Hymenoptera allergy)   b.clinical 
reaction may not only manifest at the workplace but also outside the workplace 
(e.g., drug allergy in healthcare workers).2.The acute management of an 
anaphylactic reaction at the workplace should follow general guidelines on 
anaphylaxis.3.In Germany, urgent medical suspicion of occupational anaphylaxis 
must be reported to the Social accident insurance in Germany 
(Unfallversicherungsträger).4.Prevention measures in patients with a history of 
occupational anaphylaxis should include training in allergen avoidance and 
eliminating the allergen as completely as possible.5.Every measure to prevent 
further exposure should be carried out, this includes (according to STOP 
principle): Substitution of elicitors, Technical measures, Organizational 
measures for elicitor avoidance, and Personal safety precautions.6.Patients with 
history of occupational anaphylaxis should be equipped with emergency 
medications including adrenaline autoinjectors and a written emergency 
management plan. They should receive safety education and training.7.In any 
occupational setting where there is an employee with a history of previous 
anaphylaxis, the availability of adrenaline and a person trained in its 
administration are mandatory.8.In patients with venom anaphylaxis, an 
occupational factor should always be considered.9.In occupational Hymenoptera 
allergy, venom immunotherapy should be started.10.Workers with compromised skin 
and especially atopic individuals should not wear gloves containing natural 
rubber latex (NRL) – to primarily prevent sensitization. In secondary prevention 
a “NRL-free” strategy should be followed.11.In occupations at greater risk for 
occupational anaphylaxis, surveillance and awareness campaigns are 
recommended.12.We call for awareness, documentation, and registration of 
occupational anaphylaxis in registries.


8. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2025 Feb;155(2):421-422. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2024.11.017. Epub 2024 Nov 19.

Food elimination in EoE: Milk before wheat, egg, and soy.

Crawford RJ(1), Wright BL(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy, Asthma, and Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic Arizona, Scottsdale, Ariz; Division of Allergy and Immunology, 
Phoenix Children's Hospital, Phoenix, Ariz.
(2)Division of Allergy, Asthma, and Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, 
Mayo Clinic Arizona, Scottsdale, Ariz; Division of Allergy and Immunology, 
Phoenix Children's Hospital, Phoenix, Ariz. Electronic address: 
wright.benjamin@mayo.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2024.11.017
PMCID: PMC12040323
PMID: 39571913

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure statement Supported by the National 
Institutes of Health/National Insitute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (grant 
K23AI158813 [to B.L.W.]). Disclosure of potential conflict of interest: The 
authors declare that they have no relevant conflicts of interest.


9. Pediatr Allergy Immunol. 2024 Nov;35(11):e14276. doi: 10.1111/pai.14276.

AAAAI-EAACI PRACTALL: Standardizing oral food challenges-2024 Update.

Sampson HA(1), Arasi S(2), Bahnson HT(3), Ballmer-Weber B(4)(5), Beyer K(6), 
Bindslev-Jensen C(7), Bird JA(8), Blumchen K(9), Davis C(10), Ebisawa M(11), 
Nowak-Wegrzyn A(12)(13), Patel N(14), Peters RL(15)(16), Sicherer S(1), Spergel 
J(17), Turner PJ(14), Yanagida N(11), Eigenmann PA(18).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Department of Pediatrics, Jaffe 
Food Allergy Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New 
York, USA.
(2)Translational Research in Pediatric Specialties Area, Division of Allergy, 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(3)The Immune Tolerance Network, Seattle & Benaroya Research Institute at 
Virginia Mason, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(4)Allergy Unit, Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(5)Clinic for Dermatology and Allergology, Kantonsspital St Gallen, St Gallen, 
Switzerland.
(6)Department of Pediatric Respiratory Medicine, Immunology and Critical Care 
Medicine, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie 
Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense Research Centre for 
Anaphylaxis (ORCA), Odense University Hospital, University of Southern Denmark, 
Odense, Denmark.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, Texas, USA.
(9)Division of Pneumology, Allergology and Cystic Fibrosis, Department of 
Paediatric and Adolescent Medicine, University Hospital Frankfurt, Goethe 
University, Frankfurt, Germany.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(11)Department of Allergy, Clinical Research Center for Allergy and 
Rheumatology, NHO Sagamihara National Hospital, Kanagawa, Japan.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, Hassenfeld Children's Hospital, NYU Grossman 
School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(13)Department of Pediatrics, Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Collegium Medicum, 
University of Warmia and Mazury, Olsztyn, Poland.
(14)National Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(15)Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(16)Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(17)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(18)Pediatric Allergy Unit, University Hospitals of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

This common statement of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology 
(AAAAI) and The European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) 
provides an update of the 2012 published guidelines on food challenges. The 
guidelines equally address food challenges in the research and the clinical 
settings. They first address the diagnostic tests which can guide the decision 
to conduct a challenge. Safety of food challenges is prime, and the various 
procedures and safety issues as well as medications potentially involved in 
challenges are extensively discussed. Challenges are suggested to be conducted 
with semi-logarithmic incremental doses based on the protein content, typically 
for IgE-mediated food allergy with intervals of 20-30 min between doses. 
Specific protocols for other types of reactions such atopic dermatitis or 
gastrointestinal food allergy are detailed separately. Proper stopping criteria 
are essential in order to reduce the risk of false-positive diagnoses, but also 
severe reactions. The guidelines recommend criteria based on "go on," "stop," or 
"observation." These revised guidelines will clearly provide much needed 
guidance for food challenges in the research and clinical settings. They will 
continue to evolve with new diagnostic tests or new needs in the field of food 
allergy.

© 2024 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pai.14276
PMID: 39560049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2024 Nov 6;58(11):1797-1806. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20240830-00693.

[Clinical diagnosis and management of wheat and buckwheat allergy: application 
and prospects of allergen component diagnostics].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu L(1), Zhang JL(1), Luo WT(1), Li AL(1), Sun BQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory of the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangzhou Medical University, State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, 
National Center for Respiratory Medicine, National Clinical Research Center for 
Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, Guangzhou510120, 
China.

Wheat and buckwheat allergies are common food allergies that significantly 
impact patients' quality of life and health. Wheat allergy encompasses various 
forms, including wheat food allergy, exercise-induced allergic reactions 
(WDEIA), baker's occupational asthma/allergy, and contact urticaria. 
IgE-mediated allergic reactions involve sensitization to stable wheat allergens 
such as ω-5 gliadin and gluten. Although buckwheat allergy is less common, it is 
gaining attention in certain regions. Allergen component diagnostic 
technologies, by detecting specific allergen components [e.g., ω-5 gliadin, 
gliadins (α, β, γ), and Tri a 14], offer precise allergen source identification, 
aiding in the optimization of diagnosis and management processes. Oral challenge 
tests are considered the gold standard for diagnosing wheat allergy, and 
combining skin prick tests with specific IgE measurements can enhance diagnostic 
accuracy. While avoidance of allergens remains the primary management strategy, 
research into immunotherapy is ongoing. Future research should focus on a deeper 
understanding of the structural and immunological characteristics of wheat and 
buckwheat allergens to develop more accurate diagnostic tools and treatment 
methods, thereby improving allergy management and patient quality of life. This 
article provides a detailed interpretation of the Molecular Allergology User's 
Guide 2.0 (MAUG 2.0) published by the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical 
Immunology (EAACI) and recent research advances on wheat and buckwheat 
allergies, highlighting the crucial role of allergen component diagnostics in 
optimizing food allergy diagnosis and treatment processes, supporting clinicians 
in accurately identifying common allergens and their cross-reactivity, and 
formulating more personalized treatment plans for patients.

Publisher: 
小麦和荞麦过敏是常见的食物过敏类型，对患者生活质量和健康构成了显著威胁。小麦过敏主要分为小麦食物过敏症、小麦依赖运动诱发的过敏反应（WDEIA）、面包师职业性过敏/哮喘和接触性荨麻疹等多种类型，其中IgE介导的过敏反应包括对稳定的小麦过敏原如ω-5醇溶蛋白和谷蛋白的过敏。荞麦过敏则较为少见，但在某些地区正逐渐受到关注。过敏原分子组分诊断技术通过检测特定过敏原成分，如小麦的ω-5醇溶蛋白、醇溶蛋白（α、β、γ）、Tri 
a 
14等，提供了精确的过敏原识别，帮助优化诊断和管理流程。对于小麦和荞麦过敏，口服激发试验被认为是金标准，结合皮肤点刺试验和特异性IgE检测和病史可以提高诊断准确性。虽然避免过敏原是目前主要的管理策略，但免疫疗法的研发仍在进行中。未来的研究应集中于深入了解小麦和荞麦过敏原的结构与免疫特性，以开发更为精准的诊断工具和治疗方法，从而提升过敏管理的效果和患者的生活质量。本文通过详尽解读欧洲过敏和临床免疫学会（EAACI）发布的《过敏原组分诊断指导建议2.0》（Molecular 
Allergology User′s Guide 2.0，MAUG 
2.0）以及国内外关于小麦和荞麦过敏的研究进展，突显了过敏原组分诊断技术在优化食物过敏诊断与治疗流程中的重要作用，有效辅助临床医生准确识别常见的过敏原及交叉反应，为患者制订更个性化诊疗方案。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20240830-00693
PMID: 39537423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]