1. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2025 May 19:S1542-3565(25)00318-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2025.02.015. Online ahead of print.

Clinical Practice Updates: AGA Clinical Practice Update on GI Manifestations and 
Autonomic or Immune Dysfunction in Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: Expert 
Review.

Aziz Q(1), Harris LA(2), Goodman BP(3), Simrén M(4), Shin A(5).

Author information:
(1)Blizard Institute, Wingate Institute of Neurogastroenterology, Centre for 
Neuroscience, Surgery and Trauma, Barts and the London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Queen Mary University, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, 
Arizona. Electronic address: harris.lucinda@mayo.edu.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona.
(4)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Vatche and Tamar Manoukian Division of Digestive Diseases, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

DESCRIPTION: The purpose of this Clinical Practice Update Expert Review is to 
describe key principles in the evaluation and management of patients with 
disorders of gut-brain interaction (DGBI) and hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome 
(hEDS) or hypermobility spectrum disorders (HSDs) with coexisting postural 
orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) and/or mast cell activation syndrome 
(MCAS).
METHODS: This expert review/commentary was commissioned and approved by the 
American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Institute Clinical Practice 
Updates Committee and the AGA Governing Board to provide timely guidance on a 
topic of high clinical importance to the AGA membership, and underwent internal 
peer review by the Clinical Practice Updates Committee and external peer review 
through standard procedures of Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology. These 
Best Practice Advice statements were drawn from a review of the published 
literature and from expert opinion. Because systematic reviews were not 
performed, these Best Practice Advice statements do not carry formal ratings 
regarding the quality of evidence or strength of the presented considerations. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 1: Clinicians should be aware of the observed associations 
between hEDS or HSDs and POTS and/or MCAS and their overlapping gastrointestinal 
(GI) manifestations; while theoretical explanations exist, experimental evidence 
of the biological mechanisms that explain relationships is limited and evolving. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 2: Testing for POTS/MCAS should be targeted to patients 
presenting with clinical manifestations of POTS/MCAS, but universal testing for 
POTS/MCAS in all patients with hEDS/HSDs is not supported by the current 
evidence. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 3: Gastroenterologists seeing patients with DGBI 
should inquire about joint hypermobility and strongly consider incorporating the 
Beighton score for assessing joint hypermobility into their practice as a 
screening tool; if the screen is positive, gastroenterologists may consider 
applying 2017 diagnostic criteria to diagnose hEDS 
(https://www.ehlers-danlos.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/hEDS-Dx-Criteria-checklist-1.pdf) 
or offer appropriate referral to a specialist where resources are available. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 4: Testing for POTS through postural vital signs (eg, 
symptomatic increase in heart rate of 30 beats/min or more with 10 minutes of 
standing during an active stand or head-up tilt table test in the absence of 
orthostasis) and referral to specialty practices (eg, cardiology or neurology) 
for autonomic testing should be considered in patients with hEDS/HSDs and 
refractory GI symptoms who also report orthostatic intolerance after exclusion 
of medication side effects and appropriate lifestyle or behavioral modifications 
(eg, adequate hydration and physical exercise) have been attempted but is not 
required for all patients with hEDS/HSDs who report GI symptoms alone. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 5: In patients presenting to gastroenterology providers, testing 
for mast cell disorders including MCAS should be considered in patients with 
hEDS/HSDs and DGBI who also present with episodic symptoms that suggest a more 
generalized mast cell disorder (eg, visceral and somatic pain, pruritus, 
flushing, sweating, urticaria, angioedema, wheezing, tachycardia, abdominal 
cramping, vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, urogynecological and neurological 
complaints) involving 2 or more physiological systems (eg, cutaneous, GI, 
cardiac, respiratory, and neuropsychiatric), but current data do not support the 
use of these tests for routine evaluation of GI symptoms in all patients with 
hEDS/HSDs without clinical or laboratory evidence of a primary or secondary mast 
cell disorder. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 6: If MCAS is suspected, diagnostic testing 
with serum tryptase levels collected at baseline and 1-4 hours following symptom 
flares may be considered by the gastroenterologist; increases of 20% above 
baseline plus 2 ng/mL are necessary to demonstrate evidence of mast cell 
activation. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 7: If a diagnosis of MCAS is supported through 
clinical and/or laboratory features, patients should be referred to an allergy 
specialist or mast cell disease research center where additional testing (eg, 
urinary N-methylhistamine, leukotriene E4, 11β-prostaglandin F2) may be 
performed. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 8: Diagnostic evaluation of GI symptoms 
consistent with DGBI in patients with hEDS/HSDs and comorbid POTS and/or MCAS 
should follow a similar approach to the evaluation of DGBI as in the general 
population including the use of a positive symptom-based diagnostic strategy and 
limited noninvasive testing. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 9: Testing for celiac disease 
may be considered earlier in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with 
hEDS/HSDs who report a variety of GI symptoms and not only limited to those with 
diarrhea. There is insufficient research to support routine testing for 
disaccharidase deficiencies or other diet-mediated mechanisms as causes of GI 
symptoms in hEDS/HSDs. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 10: Diagnostic testing for 
functional defecation disorders with anorectal manometry, balloon expulsion 
test, or defecography should be considered in patients with hEDS/HSDs and lower 
GI symptoms such as incomplete evacuation given the high prevalence of pelvic 
floor dysfunction, especially rectal hyposensitivity, in this population. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 11: In patients with hEDS/HSDs and comorbid POTS who report 
chronic upper GI symptoms, timely diagnostic testing of gastric motor functions 
(eg, measurement of gastric emptying and/or accommodation) should be considered 
after appropriate exclusion of anatomical and structural diseases, as abnormal 
gastric emptying may be more common than in the general population. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 12: Medical management of GI symptoms in hEDS/HSDs and POTS/MCAS 
should focus on treating the most prominent GI symptoms and abnormal GI function 
test results. In addition to general DGBIs and GI motility disorder treatment, 
management should also include treating any symptoms attributable to POTS and/or 
MCAS. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 13: Treatment of POTS may include increasing fluid 
and salt intake, exercise training, and use of compression garments. Special 
pharmacological treatments for volume expansion, heart rate control, and 
vasoconstriction with integrated care from multiple specialties (eg, cardiology, 
neurology) should be considered in patients who do not respond to conservative 
lifestyle measures. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 14: When MCAS is suspected, patients 
can benefit from treatment with histamine receptor antagonists and/or mast cell 
stabilizers, in addition to avoiding triggers such as certain foods, alcohol, 
strong smells, temperature changes, mechanical stimuli (eg, friction), emotional 
distress (eg, pollen, mold), or specific medications (eg, opioids, nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory agents, iodinated contrast). BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 15: Besides 
general nutritional support, special diets including a gastroparesis diet (ie, 
small particle diet) and various elimination diets (eg, low fermentable 
carbohydrates, gluten- or dairy-free, low-histamine diets) can be considered for 
improving GI symptoms. Dietary interventions should be delivered with 
appropriate nutritional counseling or guidance to avoid the pitfalls of 
restrictive eating. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 16: Management of chronic GI symptoms 
in patients with hEDS/HSDs who do not exhibit symptoms consistent with POTS or 
MCAS should align with existing approaches to management of DGBI and GI motility 
disorders in the general population, including integrated multidisciplinary care 
involving multiple specialties, where appropriate (eg, cardiology, rheumatology, 
dietician, psychology).

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2025.02.015
PMID: 40387691


2. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2024;64(17):5793-5817. doi: 
10.1080/10408398.2022.2158451. Epub 2022 Dec 20.

Early life gut microbiota: Consequences for health and opportunities for 
prevention.

Wang S(1)(2), Cui J(3), Jiang S(4)(5), Zheng C(4)(5), Zhao J(1)(2), Zhang 
H(3)(6), Zhai Q(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.
(2)School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 
China.
(3)Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(4)Nutrition and Metabolism Research Division, Innovation Center, Heilongjiang 
Feihe Dairy Co., Ltd, Beijing, China.
(5)PKUHSC-China Feihe Joint Research Institute of Nutrition and Healthy Lifespan 
Development, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Child Health Care, Wuxi Maternity and Child Health Care 
Hospital, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.

The gut microbiota influences many aspects of the host, including immune system 
maturation, nutrient absorption and metabolism, and protection from pathogens. 
Increasing evidences from cohort and animal studies indicate that changes in the 
gut microbiota early in life increases the risk of developing specific diseases 
early and later in life. Therefore, it is becoming increasingly important to 
identify specific disease prevention or therapeutic solutions targeting the gut 
microbiota, especially during infancy, which is the window of the human gut 
microbiota establishment process. In this review, we provide an overview of 
current knowledge concerning the relationship between disturbances in the gut 
microbiota early in life and health consequences later in life (e.g., 
necrotizing enterocolitis, celiac disease, asthma, allergies, autism spectrum 
disorders, overweight/obesity, diabetes and growth retardation), with a focus on 
changes in the gut microbiota prior to disease onset. In addition, we summarize 
and discuss potential microbiota-based interventions early in life (e.g., diet 
adjustments, probiotics, prebiotics, fecal microbiota transplantation, 
environmental changes) to promote health or prevent the development of specific 
diseases. This knowledge should aid the understanding of early life microbiology 
and inform the development of prediction and prevention measures for short- and 
long-term health disorders based on the gut microbiota.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2022.2158451
PMID: 36537331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Neuromuscul Disord. 2022 Dec;32(11-12):903-907. doi:
10.1016/j.nmd.2022.06.007.  Epub 2022 Jun 26.

Novel association of gluten sensitivity with immune-mediated neuromuscular 
syndrome in a dog.

Kolb N(1), Alf V(1), Cappello R(2), Matiasek K(1), Rosati M(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Clinical and Comparative Neuropathology, Centre for Clinical 
Veterinary Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(2)North Downs Specialist Referrals, The Brewerstreet Dairy Business Park, 
Bletchingley, United Kingdom.
(3)Section of Clinical and Comparative Neuropathology, Centre for Clinical 
Veterinary Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians Universität München, Munich, Germany. 
Electronic address: marco.rosati@outlook.de.

Gluten-related disorders in humans comprise different entities, including 
coeliac disease. Patients typically have measurable titers of anti-gliadin IgG 
or IgA (AGAs) and anti-transglutaminase-2 IgA (TG2). In addition to intestinal 
symptoms, human patients often show various neurological complications. In dogs, 
the neurological manifestation is rarely reported. Here we describe the muscle 
and nerve biopsies of an 11-year-old, male Border Terrier presenting with lower 
motor neuron signs submitted for histological examination. Examination of the 
biopsies showed an oligofocal lymphohistiocytic and plasmocytic myositis and a 
diffuse neuropathy of mixed nodo-paranodal and demyelinating type. Suspecting a 
neuromuscular form of breed-related gluten hypersensitivity, measurements of 
AGAs and TG2 antibodies were performed. Both titers ranged above control values. 
Hence, a gluten-related neuromyopathy was diagnosed. A gluten-free diet was 
prescribed and a complete disappearance of clinical signs was observed. 
Gluten-related disorders should be considered as a differential diagnosis in 
dogs with intestinal and neuromuscular signs.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2022.06.007
PMID: 36418199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


4. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2019 Aug;69(2):e43-e48. doi: 
10.1097/MPG.0000000000002343.

Pediatric Celiac Disease and Eosinophilic Esophagitis: Outcome of Dietary 
Therapy.

Patton T(1), Chugh A(2), Padhye L(3), DeGeeter C(4), Guandalini S(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Comer 
Children's Hospital, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, IL.
(2)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Medical 
College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI.
(3)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL.
(4)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Stead 
Family Children's Hospital, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA.

OBJECTIVE: The coexistence of celiac disease (CeD) and eosinophilic esophagitis 
(EoE) in pediatric patients has been increasingly recognized. In the current 
study, we have aimed to assess the outcomes of therapeutic dietary interventions 
in a cohort of pediatric patients with CeD and EoE.
METHODS: Pediatric patient records obtained from the University of Chicago 
Celiac Center Database from August 2008 to July 2013 were reviewed. Information 
was collected on patients with concomitant CeD and EoE regarding age, sex, dates 
of diagnoses, presenting symptoms, length of symptoms before diagnosis, familial 
and personal atopic history, dietary therapy, and esophageal histologic response 
to dietary therapy.
RESULTS: A total of 350 records of patients with CeD were reviewed. Twenty-two 
(6.3%) had a confirmed diagnosis of CeD and EoE, 17 had repeat biopsies. Four of 
17 (23.5%) had resolution of esophageal eosinophilia on an exclusive gluten-free 
diet, 10 of 17 (59%) required additional eliminations to show histologic 
resolution, 1 of 17 (6%) had not reached histological remission, and 2 of 17 
(12%) were lost to follow-up. Success rates of single food reintroductions were: 
soy 5 of 5 (100%), eggs 3 of 5 (60%), dairy 3 of 7 (43%), nuts 2 of 4 (50%), and 
fish 2 of 4 (50%).
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest pediatric study to assess the 
histologic outcome of EoE-associated esophageal eosinophilia in response to 
dietary management of pediatric patients with concomitant CeD and EoE. We 
demonstrate that soy is well tolerated in this cohort, and suggest that 
reintroducing this food first, or trialing a soy-inclusive elimination diet is a 
viable strategy.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000002343
PMID: 30921260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nutr Diet. 2019 Jul;76(3):305-312. doi: 10.1111/1747-0080.12521. Epub 2019 Mar
 14.

Thinking about going wheat-free? Evidence of nutritional inadequacies in the 
dietary practices of wheat avoiders.

Golley S(1), Baird D(1), Hendrie GA(1), Mohr P(2).

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Health and Biosecurity, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(2)School of Psychology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

AIM: To assess dietary intake and nutritional adequacy amongst self-identified 
symptomatic wheat-avoiders.
METHODS: Thirty-four self-identified symptomatic avoiders of wheat-based 
products without a diagnosis of coeliac disease or wheat allergy were recruited 
to participate in a dietary assessment study. Dietary intake was assessed via a 
three-day weighed food record. Participants were aged 33 to 83 years, were 
predominantly women (n = 30) and had been avoiding wheat for a mean of six 
years. Nutrient intakes were compared with Nutrient Reference Values. Food group 
intakes were assessed and consumption of wheat-containing and wheat-free 
cereal-based foods described.
RESULTS: Inadequate intakes of key protective nutrients such as fibre and 
calcium were common; many participants reported avoiding dairy as well as wheat. 
Intakes of total and saturated fat exceeded recommendations. Although 85% of the 
sample reported avoiding all wheat products, at least one third of cereal 
products and dishes consumed in this group, comprising mostly discretionary-type 
foods, were wheat based.
CONCLUSIONS: Dietary intake patterns and resulting nutrient imbalances in 
individuals restricting or eliminating wheat to manage symptoms are cause for 
concern. The situation is likely exacerbated by the tendency for many wheat 
avoiders to report also avoiding other foods, especially dairy products. A 
bi-disciplinary approach from medical practitioners and dietitians to 
individuals experiencing unexplained gastro-intestinal symptoms and strategies 
to support informed food choice is needed to combat longer-term health 
consequences of a diet with this nutritional profile.

© 2019 Dietitians Association of Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/1747-0080.12521
PMID: 30873744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Pediatr Allergy Immunol Pulmonol. 2018 Sep 1;31(3):158-165. doi: 
10.1089/ped.2018.0888. Epub 2018 Sep 17.

Allergic Diseases and Immune-Mediated Food Disorders in Pediatric Acute-Onset 
Neuropsychiatric Syndrome.

Rosa JS(1)(2), Hernandez JD(1)(2), Sherr JA(1)(2), Smith BM(3)(4), Brown KD(2), 
Farhadian B(2), Mahony T(2), McGhee SA(1), Lewis DB(1)(2), Thienemann M(2), 
Frankovich JD(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology, Allergy and Rheumatology, Department of Pediatrics, 
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
(2)PANS Clinic and Research Program, Stanford Children's Health, Palo Alto, 
California.
(3)Mary Ann and J. Milburn Smith Child Health Research Program, Department of 
Pediatrics, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and Stanley 
Manne Children's Research Institute, Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital 
of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(4)Center of Innovation for Complex Chronic Healthcare, Hines Veterans Affairs 
Hospital, Hines, Illinois.

Background: The prevalence and impact of allergic and immune-mediated food 
disorders in pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS) are mostly 
unknown. Objective: We sought to explore the prevalence of atopic dermatitis 
(AD), asthma, allergic rhinitis (AR), IgE-mediated food allergies (FAs), and 
other immune-mediated food disorders requiring food avoidance in patients with 
PANS. In addition, to further understand the extent of food restriction in this 
population, we investigated the empiric use of dietary measures to improve PANS 
symptoms. Methods: Pediatric patients in a PANS Clinic and Research Program were 
given surveys regarding their caregiver burdens, allergic and food-related 
medical history, and whether food elimination resulted in perception of 
improvement of PANS symptoms. A review of health records was conducted to 
confirm that all responses in the survey were concordant with documentation of 
each patient's medical chart. Results: Sixty-nine (ages 4-20 years) of 80 
subjects who fulfilled PANS criteria completed the surveys. Thirteen (18.8%) had 
AD, 11 (15.9%) asthma, 33 (47.8%) AR, 11 (15.9%) FA, 1 (1.4%) eosinophilic 
gastrointestinal disorders, 1 (1.4%) food protein-induced enterocolitis 
syndrome, 3 (4.3%) milk protein-induced proctocolitis syndrome, and 3 (4.3%) 
celiac disease. Thirty subjects (43.5%) avoided foods due to PANS; elimination 
of gluten and dairy was most common and was associated with perceived 
improvement of PANS symptoms (by parents). This perceived improvement was not 
confirmed with objective data. Conclusions: The prevalence of allergic and 
immune-mediated food disorders in PANS is similar to the general population as 
reported in the literature, with the exception of AR that appears to be more 
prevalent in our PANS cohort. More research will be required to establish 
whether diet or allergies influence PANS symptoms.

DOI: 10.1089/ped.2018.0888
PMCID: PMC6154445
PMID: 30283713

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


7. Gac Med Mex. 2016 Sep;152 Suppl 1:74-83.

[Gastrointestinal and hepatic diseases].

[Article in Spanish]

Moctezuma-Velázquez C(1), Aguirre-Valadez J(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Ciudad 
de México, México.

Diet is considered an important triggering factor for gastrointestinal symptoms 
whose physiopathology includes not only measurable, inflammatory reactions, but 
also functional disorders, where no organic effects may be measured or 
demonstrated. Moreover, the prevalence of the perceived intolerance to certain 
foods ranges from 20-25% (within the general population) to 50-70% in diseases 
like irritable bowel syndrome. This intolerance has been observed particularly 
after the consumption of milk and dairy products, which are frequently 
considered as causative of gastrointestinal symptoms, thus limiting their 
ingestion. However, this behavior reduces the dietary sources of calcium and 
consequently may lead to malnutrition and bone decalcification, amongst other 
complications. The true dairy intolerance (intestinal lactase deficiency) 
explains most of the symptoms ensuing their consumption, but the frequency of 
such alteration on the different gastrointestinal diseases has not been 
determined. This review focuses on the most frequent gastrointestinal diseases 
and the existing evidence regarding the alterations and symptoms related to the 
consumption of milk or dairy products.

PMID: 27603892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Jan;15(1):63-68.e2. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2016.08.017. Epub 2016 Aug 21.

Alterations in Diets of Patients With Nonceliac Gluten Sensitivity Compared With 
Healthy Individuals.

Zingone F(1), Bartalini C(1), Siniscalchi M(1), Ruotolo M(1), Bucci C(1), Morra 
I(1), Iovino P(1), Ciacci C(2).

Author information:
(1)Celiac Center at Gastrointestinal Unit, AOU S. Giovanni di Dio e Ruggi 
d'Aragona, University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy.
(2)Celiac Center at Gastrointestinal Unit, AOU S. Giovanni di Dio e Ruggi 
d'Aragona, University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy. Electronic address: 
cciacci@unisa.it.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: There is evidence that food components beyond gluten cause 
symptoms in patients with gluten sensitivity without celiac disease (nonceliac 
gluten sensitivity [NCGS]). We investigated the diets and nutritional 
characteristics of patients with NCGS.
METHODS: We performed a prospective observational study of 29 patients with NCGS 
seen at the outpatient clinic for celiac disease and other food intolerances of 
the University of Salerno in Italy from September 2015 through April 2016. Our 
study also included 37 control subjects. An experienced dietitian administered a 
validated food frequency questionnaire (from the European Prospective 
Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition) to collect information on amounts of 
common foods consumed. Patients and control subjects also completed the Eating 
Attitudes Test for diet-related disorders. Patients with NCGS completed the 
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory 2-I questionnaire. Differences in 
frequencies between patients and control subjects were calculated using 
chi-square test, whereas differences between continuous variables were 
calculated using Student t test. All tests were 2-tailed with significance level 
set at P < .05.
RESULTS: Comparing the mean value of food daily eaten, we found that patients 
with NCGS ate smaller amounts of bread, rice, pasta, and cheese than control 
subjects. The patients ingested lower mean amounts of carbohydrates (P < .001), 
proteins (P = .001), fiber (P = .002), and polyunsaturated fatty acids (P = 
.01). More patients with NCGS than control subjects reported avoiding fruit, 
vegetables, milk, and dairy products, as well as snacks and mixed spices that 
are traditionally considered unsafe for people with gastrointestinal symptoms. 
Seven patients and 3 control subjects with scores ≥20 on the Eating Attitudes 
Test were invited for a psychological consultation; it did not confirm the 
presence of altered eating behaviors. Patients with NCGS had scores >65 from the 
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, indicating a high level of concern 
for their health.
CONCLUSIONS: In an observational study, we found that patients with NCGS eat 
different foods than healthy individuals; patients consume lower levels of 
proteins, carbohydrates, fiber, and polyunsaturated fatty acids. Their diets 
should be routinely analyzed and possibly corrected to avoid nutritional 
deficiencies.

Copyright © 2017 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2016.08.017
PMID: 27552857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2015;24 Suppl 1:S9-13. doi: 10.6133/apjcn.2015.24.s1.02.

Lactose intolerance.

Vandenplas Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium. Email: yvan.vandenplas@uzbrussel.be.

Lactose is the main carbohydrate in infant feeding, but its impact decreases as 
the child gets older and consumes less milk and dairy products. Congenital 
lactose intolerance is a very rare condition. However, lactase activity may be 
low and need to mature during the first weeks of life in many infants. However, 
the evidence that unabsorbed lactose is causing infantile crying and colic is 
contradictory. Unabsorbed lactose has a bifidogenic effect and improves calcium 
absorption. Lactose malabsorption may occur secondary and thus temporally to 
other etiologies such as infectious gastroenteritis, cow's milk allergy and 
celiac disease. One the cause is treated, lactase activity will gradually return 
to normal. The vast majority of Asian children will develop late onset 
congenital lactase deficiency. However, this entity only exceptionally causes 
symptoms before the age of 4-5 years. Symptoms are abdominal cramps, flatulence 
and watery, acid stools, and decrease the quality of life but lactose 
intolerance is not associated with "true disease". The diagnosis is made on 
clinical grounds and confirmed with a lactose breath test, if needed. These 
patients need to have a lifetime long reduced lactose intake to improve their 
quality of life.

Publisher: 乳糖是嬰兒主要的醣類來源，它的影響會隨著兒童年紀增長與牛奶及乳製品攝 取降低而遞減。先天性乳糖不耐症是一種很罕見的情形。許多嬰兒出生的第一 
週，其乳糖酶活性可能較低，並需要時間逐漸成熟。然而，未被吸收的乳糖是 否是引起嬰兒哭鬧及絞痛的證據仍是矛盾的。未被吸收的乳糖可作為雙岐桿菌 
生長之用，及促進鈣吸收。乳糖吸收不良也可能是次發性的，起因於其他暫時 的病因，如腸胃道感染、對牛奶過敏或乳糜瀉。一旦疾病被治癒，乳糖酶活性 
會逐漸回復正常。亞洲兒童絕大多數為晚發型先天性乳糖酶缺乏症。但是，只 有少部分在4-5 歲前就有症狀。症狀為腹部絞痛、脹氣、水便或酸便及降低生 
活品質，但乳糖不耐症與真正的疾病並無相關。如果需要，可經臨床表現及乳 糖呼吸測試確診。這些病人需要終身降低乳糖攝取，以改善他們的生活品質。.

DOI: 10.6133/apjcn.2015.24.s1.02
PMID: 26715083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Pediatr Res. 2015 Jan;77(1-2):252-5. doi: 10.1038/pr.2014.159. Epub 2014 Oct
13.

Effects of gluten-free, dairy-free diet on childhood nephrotic syndrome and gut 
microbiota.

Uy N(1), Graf L(1), Lemley KV(2), Kaskel F(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York.
(2)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Keck 
School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California.

Emerging evidence suggests an association between food sensitivity and gut 
microbiota in children with nephrotic syndrome. Diminished proteinuria resulted 
from eliminating cow's milk and the use of an oligoantigenic diet which excluded 
gluten, especially in patients with immune-related conditions, i.e., celiac 
disease and nephrotic syndrome. The mechanisms underlying the association of 
diet, gut microbiota, and dysregulation of the immune system are unknown. Gut 
microbiota is influenced by a number of factors including diet composition and 
other environmental epigenetic exposures. The imbalance in gut microbiota may be 
ameliorated by gluten-free and dairy-free diets. Gluten-free diet increased the 
number of unhealthy bacteria while reducing bacterial-induced cytokine 
production of IL-10. Thus, gluten-free diet may influence the composition and 
immune function of gut microbiota and should be considered a possible 
environmental factor associated with immune-related disease, including nephrotic 
syndrome. Furthermore, the imbalance of gut microbiota may be related to the 
development of cow's milk protein allergy. Investigations are needed to fill the 
gaps in our knowledge concerning the associations between the gut microbiome, 
environmental exposures, epigenetics, racial influences, and the propensity for 
immune dysregulation with its inherent risk to the developing individual.

DOI: 10.1038/pr.2014.159
PMCID: PMC4827614
PMID: 25310757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no financial ties or conflicts of 
interest to disclose.