1. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions (Archived).

Justiz Vaillant AA(1), Vashisht R, Zito PM(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2025 
Jan–.
2023 May 29.

Author information:
(1)University of the West Indies
(2)University of Miami; Miller School of Medicine

Hypersensitivity reactions (HR) are immune responses that are exaggerated or 
inappropriate against an antigen or allergen. Coombs and Gell classified 
hypersensitivity reactions into four forms. Type I, type II, and type III 
hypersensitivity reactions are known as immediate hypersensitivity reactions 
(IHR) because they occur within 24 hours. Antibodies including IgE, IgM, and IgG 
mediate them. Type I or Anaphylactic Response The anaphylactic response is 
mediated by IgE antibodies that are produced by the immune system in response to 
environmental proteins (allergens) such as pollens, animal danders, or dust 
mites. These antibodies (IgE) bind to mast cells and basophils, which contain 
histamine granules that are released in the reaction and cause inflammation. 
Type I hypersensitivity reactions can be seen in bronchial asthma, allergic 
rhinitis, allergic dermatitis, food allergy, allergic conjunctivitis, and 
anaphylactic shock. Anaphylaxis Anaphylaxis is a medical emergency as it can 
lead to acute, life-threatening respiratory failure. It is an IgE-mediated 
process. It is the most severe form of an allergic reaction, where mast cells 
suddenly release a large amount of histamine and later on leukotrienes. In 
severe cases intense bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, cyanosis, hypotension, and 
shock are present.  Allergic Bronchial Asthma Allergic bronchial asthma is an 
atopic disease, characterized by bronchospasm. It may also be a chronic 
inflammatory disease. In its etiology, environmental factors along with a 
genetic background play an important role. The diagnosis is dependent on history 
and examination. In allergic bronchial asthma, IgE is elevated, and sputum 
eosinophilia is common. Epidemiologically, a positive skin prick test or 
specific IgE are risk factors for asthma. Allergic Rhinitis Allergic rhinitis is 
another atopic disease where histamine and leukotrienes are responsible for 
rhinorrhea, sneezing, and nasal obstruction. Allergens are similar to those 
found in bronchial asthma. Nasal polyps may be seen in chronic rhinitis. 
Allergic Conjunctivitis Allergic conjunctivitis presents with rhinitis and is 
IgE-mediated. Itching and eye problems including watering, redness, and swelling 
always occur. Food Allergy Clinicians must differentiate food allergy 
(IgE-mediated) from food intolerance that can be a cause for a variety of 
etiologies including malabsorption and celiac disease. It is more frequent in 
children as seen in cow's milk allergy. Food allergy symptoms mostly affect the 
respiratory tract, the skin, and the gut. Skin prick tests are helpful to test 
for food allergens that can trigger severe reactions, e.g., peanuts, eggs, fish, 
and milk. Atopic Eczema Atopic eczema is an IgE-mediated disease that affects 
the skin and has an immunopathogenesis very similar to that of allergic asthma 
and allergic rhinitis, which are present in more than half of these patients. 
Radioallergosorbent (RAST) may reveal the specificity of the IgE antibody 
involved but has little help in management. Drug Allergy Drugs may cause 
allergic reactions by any mechanism of hypersensitivity. For example, penicillin 
may cause anaphylaxis, which is IgE-mediated but most responses are trivial. 
Penicillin cross-reacts with other semisynthetic penicillins including 
monobactams and carbapenems and may also cross-react with other antibiotics such 
as cephalosporins.   Type II or Cytotoxic-Mediated Response IgG and IgM mediate 
cytotoxic-mediated responses against cell surface and extracellular matrix 
proteins. The immunoglobulins involved in this type of reaction damage cells by 
activating the complement system or by phagocytosis. Type 
II hypersensitivity reactions can be seen in immune thrombocytopenia, autoimmune 
hemolytic anemia, and autoimmune neutropenia. Immune Thrombocytopenia (ITP) ITP 
is an autoimmune disorder that occurs at any age. Phagocytes destroy sensitized 
platelets in the peripheral blood. Clinically, it manifests as thrombocytopenia 
with shortened platelet survival and increased marrow megakaryocytes. Sudden 
onset of petechiae and bleeding from the gums, nose, bowel, and urinary tract 
occurs. Bleeding can accompany infections, drug reactions, malignancy, and other 
autoimmune disorders such as thyroid disease and SLE. Autoimmune Hemolytic 
anemia (AIHA) There are two types of immune hemolytic anemia: IgG-mediated (warm 
AIHA) and IgM-mediated (cold AIHA). The warm type may be idiopathic autoimmune 
or secondary to other diseases such as malignancy affecting the lymphoid 
tissues. The cold type may be idiopathic or secondary to infections such as 
Epstein-Barr virus. The primary clinical sign of the two is jaundice. The 
laboratory diagnosis is made by a positive Coombs test, which identifies 
immunoglobulins and C3 on red blood cells. Autoimmune Neutropenia Autoimmune 
neutropenia may be present with bacterial and fungal infections, or it may occur 
alone or with autoimmune diseases (systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid 
arthritis, autoimmune hepatitis), infections and lymphoma. Bone marrow 
examination is needed if neutropenia is severe. For associated autoimmune 
disorders, an autoimmune antibody panel is necessary (ANA, ENA, and dsDNA). 
Hemolytic Disease of the Fetus and the Newborn (erythroblastosis fetalis) The 
maternal immune system suffers an initial sensitization to the fetal Rh+ red 
blood cells during birth when the placenta tears away. The first child escapes 
the disease but the mother, now sensitized, will be capable of causing a 
hemolytic reaction against a second Rh+ fetus, which develops anemia and 
jaundice once the maternal IgG crosses the placenta. Myasthenia Gravis 
Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder caused by antibodies to 
post-synaptic acetylcholine receptors that interfere with neuromuscular 
transmission. It is characterized by extreme muscular fatigue, double vision, 
bilateral ptosis, deconjugate eye movements, difficulty swallowing, and weakness 
in the upper arms. Babies born to mothers with myasthenia gravis can have 
transient muscle weakness due to pathogenic IgG antibodies that cross the 
placenta. Goodpasture Syndrome  Goodpasture syndrome is a type II 
hypersensitivity reaction characterized by the presence of nephritis in 
association with lung hemorrhage. In most patients, it is caused by 
cross-reactive autoantigens that are present in the basement membranes of the 
lung and kidney. A number of patients with this problem exhibit antibodies to 
collagen type IV, which is an important component of basement membranes. 
Pemphigus Pemphigus causes a severe blistering disease that affects the skin and 
mucous membranes. The sera of patients with pemphigus have antibodies against 
desmoglein-1 and desmoglein-3, which are components of desmosomes, which form 
junctions between epidermal cells. Pemphigus is strongly linked to HLA-DR4 
(DRB1*0402), which is a molecule that presents one of the autoantigens involved 
in the immunopathogenesis of this disease (desmoglein-3). Type III or 
Immunocomplex Reactions These are also mediated by IgM and IgG antibodies that 
react with soluble antigens forming antigen-antibody complexes. The complement 
system becomes activated and releases chemotactic agents that attract 
neutrophils and cause inflammation and tissue damage as seen in vasculitis and 
glomerulonephritis. Type III hypersensitivity reactions can classically be seen 
in serum sickness and Arthus reaction. Serum Sickness Serum sickness can be 
induced with massive injections of a foreign antigen. Circulating immune 
complexes infiltrate the blood vessel walls and tissues, causing an increased 
vascular permeability and leading to inflammatory processes such as vasculitis 
and arthritis. It was a complication of anti-serum prepared in animals to which 
some individuals produced antibodies to the foreign protein. It was also 
experienced in the treatment with antibiotics such as penicillin. Arthus 
Reaction Arthus reaction is a local reaction seen when a small quantity of 
antigens is injected into the skin repeatedly until detectable levels of 
antibodies (IgG) are present. If the same antigen is inoculated, immune 
complexes develop at the mentioned local site and in the endothelium of small 
vessels. This reaction is characterized by the presence of marked edema and 
hemorrhage, depending on the administered dose of the foreign antigen.

Copyright © 2025, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30020687

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Angel Justiz Vaillant declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Rishik 
Vashisht declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Patrick Zito declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.


2. Pediatrics. 2023 Feb 1;151(2):e2022058380. doi: 10.1542/peds.2022-058380.

Complementary and Allergenic Food Introduction in Infants: An Umbrella Review.

Soriano VX(1)(2), Ciciulla D(1)(2)(3), Gell G(2), Wang Y(2)(3)(4), Peters 
RL(1)(2), McWilliam V(2)(3)(5), Dharmage SC(1)(6), Koplin JJ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Food and Allergy Research.
(2)Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Parkville, Australia.
(3)Department of Paediatrics.
(4)School of Psychology, Faculty of Health, Deakin University, Burwood, 
Australia.
(5)Department of Allergy, Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, Australia.
(6)School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Multiple systematic reviews examine the introduction of foods in 
relation to individual health outcomes, but the balance of harms and benefits 
has not been overviewed systematically.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to perform an overview of systematic reviews on age of 
introduction of complementary and allergenic foods to the infant diet and long 
and short-term health outcomes.
DATA SOURCES: We searched Medline, Embase, Cochrane, and PubMed (July 25, 2022).
STUDY SELECTION: Included systematic reviews examining the introduction of 
complementary or allergenic foods before age 1. Outcomes included allergic, 
autoimmune, and inflammatory diseases, neurodevelopment, nutrition, and weight.
DATA EXTRACTION: Extraction and quality assessment were performed in duplicate 
(A Measurement Tool to Assess Systematic Reviews) and strength of evidence was 
assessed.
RESULTS: We screened 4015 articles and included 32 systematic reviews. There was 
moderate evidence that peanut and egg should be introduced from 4 to 11 months 
to prevent food allergy (6 of 10 reviews). Complementary food introduction was 
not associated with food allergy. Moderate certainty evidence suggested age of 
complementary food introduction was not associated with eczema. Age at 
introduction of gluten was not associated with celiac disease (high certainty 
evidence; 3 of 4 reviews). Low certainty evidence indicated that introducing 
solids before 4 months may increase the risk of childhood obesity, but not 
growth. There was insufficient evidence regarding an association between any 
food introduction and bone health, gastrointestinal diseases, autoimmune 
disorders, asthma, or allergic rhinitis.
LIMITATIONS: Gray literature was not included.
CONCLUSIONS: Current evidence supports introducing complementary foods around 6 
months and allergenic foods before 11 months.

Copyright © 2023 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2022-058380
PMID: 36704902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2022 Sep;10(9):2397-2403. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaip.2022.05.006. Epub 2022 May 19.

Food Protein-Induced Enterocolitis Syndrome in Adulthood: Clinical 
Characteristics, Prognosis, and Risk Factors.

González-Delgado P(1), Muriel J(2), Jiménez T(3), Cameo JI(4), Palazón-Bru A(2), 
Fernández J(5).

Author information:
(1)Allergy Service, Alicante General University Hospital, Alicante Institute for 
Health and Biomedical Research (ISABIAL), Alicante, Spain; Clinical Medicine 
Department, University Miguel Hernández, San Juan, Alicante, Spain. Electronic 
address: purifica60@gmail.com.
(2)Clinical Medicine Department, University Miguel Hernández, San Juan, 
Alicante, Spain.
(3)Allergy Service, Alicante General University Hospital, Alicante Institute for 
Health and Biomedical Research (ISABIAL), Alicante, Spain.
(4)Gastroenterology Service, Alicante General University Hospital, Alicante 
Institute for Health and Biomedical Research (ISABIAL), Alicante, Spain.
(5)Allergy Service, Alicante General University Hospital, Alicante Institute for 
Health and Biomedical Research (ISABIAL), Alicante, Spain; Clinical Medicine 
Department, University Miguel Hernández, San Juan, Alicante, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) in adults is 
being increasingly recognized; however, little is known about its 
characteristics.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical characteristics, prognosis, and associated 
factors in adult FPIES.
METHODS: A 10-year prospective study was conducted in the Allergy Section of 
Alicante General Hospital in adults diagnosed with FPIES. Detailed interviews 
with patients and oral food challenges (OFCs) were performed to confirm 
diagnosis or evaluate for tolerance. Comorbidities and possible risk factors 
were analyzed retrospectively through electronic medical records to assess their 
association with the disease.
RESULTS: One hundred and seven adults with FPIES (93.5% female) were followed 
for a median of 6.2 years. Abdominal pain was the most common manifestation 
(96.3%), followed by diarrhea (72%) and vomiting (60.7%). Seafood (59.8%), egg 
(14%), and milk (10.3%) were the most common triggers, whereas 43.9% reacted to 
more than 1 food group. We performed 49 OFCs: 9 to confirm diagnosis and 40 to 
evaluate for tolerance. After a median 3.5 years, 16.8% achieved tolerance. 
Resolution was correlated inversely with duration of the disease (P = .04) and 
seafood (P = .023) but not with age of onset. The prevalence of gastrointestinal 
pathologies such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), eosinophilic esophagitis, 
inflammatory bowel disease, and celiac disease was higher than in the general 
population. A higher number of FPIES triggers were correlated with also having a 
diagnosis of IBS (P = .02).
CONCLUSIONS: Although adult FPIES normally persists, some patients achieve 
tolerance. Adults with FPIES have a relatively high prevalence of 
gastrointestinal pathologies. The predominance of women may be related to 
hormonal factors. The clinical differences with pediatric FPIES warrant a 
revision of diagnostic criteria in adults.

Copyright © 2022 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaip.2022.05.006
PMID: 35598865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Intern Med. 2022 Mar;291(3):283-302. doi: 10.1111/joim.13422. Epub 2021 Dec 
22.

Food allergy and hypersensitivity reactions in children and adults-A review.

Tedner SG(1)(2), Asarnoj A(1)(2), Thulin H(3)(4), Westman M(5)(6), Konradsen 
JR(1)(2), Nilsson C(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Pediatric Allergy and Pulmonology Unit at Astrid Lindgren Children's 
Hospital, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Allergy and Lung Department, Sachs' Children and Youth Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical Science and Education Södersjukhuset, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Division of Immunology and Allergy, Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Asthma and Allergy Clinic S:t Göran, Stockholm, Sweden.

Adverse reactions after food intake are commonly reported and a cause of concern 
and anxiety that can lead to a very strict diet. The severity of the reaction 
can vary depending on the type of food and mechanism, and it is not always easy 
to disentangle different hypersensitivity diagnoses, which sometimes can exist 
simultaneously. After a carefully taken medical history, hypersensitivity to 
food can often be ruled out or suspected. The most common type of allergic 
reaction is immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated food allergy (prevalence 5-10%). 
Symptoms vary from mild itching, stomach pain, and rash to severe anaphylaxis. 
The definition of IgE-mediated food allergy is allergic symptoms combined with 
specific IgE-antibodies, and therefore only IgE-antibodies to suspected 
allergens should be analyzed. Nowadays, methods of molecular allergology can 
help with the diagnostic process. The most common allergens are milk and egg in 
infants, peanut and tree nuts in children, and fish and shellfish in adults. In 
young children, milk/egg allergy has a good chance to remit, making it important 
to follow up and reintroduce the food when possible. Other diseases triggered by 
food are non-IgE-mediated food allergy, for example, eosinophilic esophagitis, 
celiac disease, food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome, and 
hypersensitivity to milk and biogenic amines. Some of the food 
hypersensitivities dominate in childhood, others are more common in adults. 
Interesting studies are ongoing regarding the possibilities of treating food 
hypersensitivity, such as through oral immunotherapy. The purpose of this review 
was to provide an overview of the most common types of food hypersensitivity 
reactions.

© 2021 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/joim.13422
PMID: 34875122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Am J Ind Med. 2021 May;64(5):431-434. doi: 10.1002/ajim.23238. Epub 2021 Mar
2.

Occupational IgE-mediated psyllium allergy in contemporary gluten-free and vegan 
baking: A case of allergic rhinitis.

Jungewelter S(1), Suomela S(1), Airaksinen L(1).

Author information:
(1)Finnish Institute of Occupational Health (FIOH), Helsinki, Finland.

Psyllium (from Plantago ovata; ispaghula) is used as a dietary supplement and is 
supplied in the form of husk, granules, capsules, or powder. Consumers using 
psyllium-containing laxatives, healthcare workers handling these, and 
pharmaceutical workers in laxative-manufacturing plants are known to be at risk 
of sensitization and subsequent rhinitis, asthma, contact urticaria, and even 
anaphylaxis. To our knowledge, the case we present here is the first of baker's 
immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated occupational allergy due to psyllium exposure. 
Our patient, a 24-year-old female baker with no previous allergies, was referred 
to our clinic with suspected occupational rhinitis. After 1 year of baking with 
cereal flour or gluten-free flour-mix, she began to suffer from 
rhino-conjunctival symptoms during workdays. Skin prick tests with agents from 
the patient's workplace revealed allergies not only to wheat and rye flours but 
also to psyllium, with a remarkable 10 mm wheal. Subsequently, nasal provocation 
tests confirmed occupational allergic rhinitis to psyllium. We also found 
work-related sensitization to buckwheat, which she used in gluten-free baking. 
Due to the increased prevalence of celiac disease and the popularity of 
gluten-free and vegan food, psyllium has recently become a common ingredient in 
baking, used as a substitute for gluten or eggs. Bakers handle allergens such as 
these in high concentrations and this may lie behind the emergence of 
respiratory and dermal symptoms. It is essential to consider new or recenlty 
introduced materials as possible allergens if it is suspected that a baker has 
work-related respiratory or allergic symptoms.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.23238
PMID: 33651455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2019 Aug;69(2):e43-e48. doi: 
10.1097/MPG.0000000000002343.

Pediatric Celiac Disease and Eosinophilic Esophagitis: Outcome of Dietary 
Therapy.

Patton T(1), Chugh A(2), Padhye L(3), DeGeeter C(4), Guandalini S(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Comer 
Children's Hospital, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, IL.
(2)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Medical 
College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI.
(3)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL.
(4)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Stead 
Family Children's Hospital, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA.

OBJECTIVE: The coexistence of celiac disease (CeD) and eosinophilic esophagitis 
(EoE) in pediatric patients has been increasingly recognized. In the current 
study, we have aimed to assess the outcomes of therapeutic dietary interventions 
in a cohort of pediatric patients with CeD and EoE.
METHODS: Pediatric patient records obtained from the University of Chicago 
Celiac Center Database from August 2008 to July 2013 were reviewed. Information 
was collected on patients with concomitant CeD and EoE regarding age, sex, dates 
of diagnoses, presenting symptoms, length of symptoms before diagnosis, familial 
and personal atopic history, dietary therapy, and esophageal histologic response 
to dietary therapy.
RESULTS: A total of 350 records of patients with CeD were reviewed. Twenty-two 
(6.3%) had a confirmed diagnosis of CeD and EoE, 17 had repeat biopsies. Four of 
17 (23.5%) had resolution of esophageal eosinophilia on an exclusive gluten-free 
diet, 10 of 17 (59%) required additional eliminations to show histologic 
resolution, 1 of 17 (6%) had not reached histological remission, and 2 of 17 
(12%) were lost to follow-up. Success rates of single food reintroductions were: 
soy 5 of 5 (100%), eggs 3 of 5 (60%), dairy 3 of 7 (43%), nuts 2 of 4 (50%), and 
fish 2 of 4 (50%).
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest pediatric study to assess the 
histologic outcome of EoE-associated esophageal eosinophilia in response to 
dietary management of pediatric patients with concomitant CeD and EoE. We 
demonstrate that soy is well tolerated in this cohort, and suggest that 
reintroducing this food first, or trialing a soy-inclusive elimination diet is a 
viable strategy.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000002343
PMID: 30921260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. United European Gastroenterol J. 2019 Feb;7(1):78-89. doi: 
10.1177/2050640618811485. Epub 2018 Nov 5.

The association of celiac disease and allergic disease in a general adult 
population.

Kårhus LL(1), Skaaby T(1), Madsen AL(1), Thuesen BH(1), Schwarz P(2)(3), 
Rumessen JJ(4), Linneberg A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Research and Prevention, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg 
Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Endocrinology & Diabetes and Bone-Metabolic Research Unit, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Q&D-Research Unit and Department of Gastroenterology, Herlev and Gentofte 
Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between allergy and celiac disease (CD) is not 
clear.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this article is to investigate the association of CD 
and CD antibody positivity with hay fever, asthma and immunoglobulin (Ig)E 
sensitization in a general adult population.
METHODS: A total of 2297 individuals were screened for CD antibodies and 
underwent allergy testing. CD antibody-positive participants were invited to 
undergo clinical evaluation including biopsies. Additionally, biobank blood 
samples from four population-based studies (6423, 973, 1718 and 1101 
participants) with data on IgE sensitization to inhalant allergens were screened 
for CD antibodies. CD antibody-positive participants were screened for serum IgE 
against food allergens in three biobank studies. CD-antibody positivity was 
defined as IgA or IgG tissue transglutaminase ≥7 U/ml and/or IgG deamidated 
gliadin peptide ≥10 U/ml.
RESULTS: The nine participants (0.4%) diagnosed with CD had significantly higher 
prevalence of IgE sensitization to wheat and dust mites. The prevalence of CD 
antibody positivity was 0.8% (18/2297), and these participants had a 
significantly higher prevalence of IgE sensitization to food allergens (Fx5), 
egg, dust mites and mugwort. In the biobank studies, the prevalence of CD 
antibody positivity was 0.8% to 1.2%. One study showed a positive association 
between CD antibody positivity and IgE sensitization for dog, horse and food 
allergens.
CONCLUSION: We found a possible association of CD and IgE sensitization to some 
food and inhalant allergens in the Health2006 study. In further studies, 
however, we could not consistently replicate these associations.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640618811485
PMCID: PMC6374850
PMID: 30788119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 2018 Jan-Feb;46(1):1-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.aller.2017.10.002.

Food Protein-Induced Proctocolitis. The shadow of allergic disorders.

Sánchez-Salguero CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Allergy Unit, Hospital Universitario Puerto Real, Cádiz, Spain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aller.2017.10.002
PMID: 29291769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. BMJ. 2017 Aug 21;358:j3468. doi: 10.1136/bmj.j3468.

Medicines, excipients, and dietary intolerances.

Drug and Therapeutics Bulletin.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.j3468
PMID: 28827390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Competing interests are in 
line with DTB’s policy on conflicts of interests.


10. ACS Nano. 2017 Oct 24;11(10):10062-10069. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.7b04318. Epub 
2017 Aug 25.

Integrated Magneto-Chemical Sensor For On-Site Food Allergen Detection.

Lin HY, Huang CH, Park J, Pathania D, Castro CM, Fasano A, Weissleder R(1), Lee 
H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School , Boston, Massachusetts 
02114, United States.

Adverse food reactions, including food allergies, food sensitivities, and 
autoimmune reaction (e.g., celiac disease) affect 5-15% of the population and 
remain a considerable public health problem requiring stringent food avoidance 
and epinephrine availability for emergency events. Avoiding problematic foods is 
practically difficult, given current reliance on prepared foods and out-of-home 
meals. In response, we developed a portable, point-of-use detection technology, 
termed integrated exogenous antigen testing (iEAT). The system consists of a 
disposable antigen extraction device coupled with an electronic keychain reader 
for rapid sensing and communication. We optimized the prototype iEAT system to 
detect five major food antigens in peanuts, hazelnuts, wheat, milk, and eggs. 
Antigen extraction and detection with iEAT requires <10 min and achieves 
high-detection sensitivities (e.g., 0.1 mg/kg for gluten, lower than regulatory 
limits of 20 mg/kg). When testing under restaurant conditions, we were able to 
detect hidden food antigens such as gluten within "gluten-free" food items. The 
small size and rapid, simple testing of the iEAT system should help not only 
consumers but also other key stakeholders such as clinicians, food industries, 
and regulators to enhance food safety.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.7b04318
PMID: 28792732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]