1. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2025 May 19:S1542-3565(25)00318-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2025.02.015. Online ahead of print.

Clinical Practice Updates: AGA Clinical Practice Update on GI Manifestations and 
Autonomic or Immune Dysfunction in Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: Expert 
Review.

Aziz Q(1), Harris LA(2), Goodman BP(3), Simrén M(4), Shin A(5).

Author information:
(1)Blizard Institute, Wingate Institute of Neurogastroenterology, Centre for 
Neuroscience, Surgery and Trauma, Barts and the London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Queen Mary University, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, 
Arizona. Electronic address: harris.lucinda@mayo.edu.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona.
(4)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Vatche and Tamar Manoukian Division of Digestive Diseases, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

DESCRIPTION: The purpose of this Clinical Practice Update Expert Review is to 
describe key principles in the evaluation and management of patients with 
disorders of gut-brain interaction (DGBI) and hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome 
(hEDS) or hypermobility spectrum disorders (HSDs) with coexisting postural 
orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) and/or mast cell activation syndrome 
(MCAS).
METHODS: This expert review/commentary was commissioned and approved by the 
American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Institute Clinical Practice 
Updates Committee and the AGA Governing Board to provide timely guidance on a 
topic of high clinical importance to the AGA membership, and underwent internal 
peer review by the Clinical Practice Updates Committee and external peer review 
through standard procedures of Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology. These 
Best Practice Advice statements were drawn from a review of the published 
literature and from expert opinion. Because systematic reviews were not 
performed, these Best Practice Advice statements do not carry formal ratings 
regarding the quality of evidence or strength of the presented considerations. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 1: Clinicians should be aware of the observed associations 
between hEDS or HSDs and POTS and/or MCAS and their overlapping gastrointestinal 
(GI) manifestations; while theoretical explanations exist, experimental evidence 
of the biological mechanisms that explain relationships is limited and evolving. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 2: Testing for POTS/MCAS should be targeted to patients 
presenting with clinical manifestations of POTS/MCAS, but universal testing for 
POTS/MCAS in all patients with hEDS/HSDs is not supported by the current 
evidence. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 3: Gastroenterologists seeing patients with DGBI 
should inquire about joint hypermobility and strongly consider incorporating the 
Beighton score for assessing joint hypermobility into their practice as a 
screening tool; if the screen is positive, gastroenterologists may consider 
applying 2017 diagnostic criteria to diagnose hEDS 
(https://www.ehlers-danlos.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/hEDS-Dx-Criteria-checklist-1.pdf) 
or offer appropriate referral to a specialist where resources are available. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 4: Testing for POTS through postural vital signs (eg, 
symptomatic increase in heart rate of 30 beats/min or more with 10 minutes of 
standing during an active stand or head-up tilt table test in the absence of 
orthostasis) and referral to specialty practices (eg, cardiology or neurology) 
for autonomic testing should be considered in patients with hEDS/HSDs and 
refractory GI symptoms who also report orthostatic intolerance after exclusion 
of medication side effects and appropriate lifestyle or behavioral modifications 
(eg, adequate hydration and physical exercise) have been attempted but is not 
required for all patients with hEDS/HSDs who report GI symptoms alone. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 5: In patients presenting to gastroenterology providers, testing 
for mast cell disorders including MCAS should be considered in patients with 
hEDS/HSDs and DGBI who also present with episodic symptoms that suggest a more 
generalized mast cell disorder (eg, visceral and somatic pain, pruritus, 
flushing, sweating, urticaria, angioedema, wheezing, tachycardia, abdominal 
cramping, vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, urogynecological and neurological 
complaints) involving 2 or more physiological systems (eg, cutaneous, GI, 
cardiac, respiratory, and neuropsychiatric), but current data do not support the 
use of these tests for routine evaluation of GI symptoms in all patients with 
hEDS/HSDs without clinical or laboratory evidence of a primary or secondary mast 
cell disorder. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 6: If MCAS is suspected, diagnostic testing 
with serum tryptase levels collected at baseline and 1-4 hours following symptom 
flares may be considered by the gastroenterologist; increases of 20% above 
baseline plus 2 ng/mL are necessary to demonstrate evidence of mast cell 
activation. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 7: If a diagnosis of MCAS is supported through 
clinical and/or laboratory features, patients should be referred to an allergy 
specialist or mast cell disease research center where additional testing (eg, 
urinary N-methylhistamine, leukotriene E4, 11β-prostaglandin F2) may be 
performed. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 8: Diagnostic evaluation of GI symptoms 
consistent with DGBI in patients with hEDS/HSDs and comorbid POTS and/or MCAS 
should follow a similar approach to the evaluation of DGBI as in the general 
population including the use of a positive symptom-based diagnostic strategy and 
limited noninvasive testing. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 9: Testing for celiac disease 
may be considered earlier in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with 
hEDS/HSDs who report a variety of GI symptoms and not only limited to those with 
diarrhea. There is insufficient research to support routine testing for 
disaccharidase deficiencies or other diet-mediated mechanisms as causes of GI 
symptoms in hEDS/HSDs. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 10: Diagnostic testing for 
functional defecation disorders with anorectal manometry, balloon expulsion 
test, or defecography should be considered in patients with hEDS/HSDs and lower 
GI symptoms such as incomplete evacuation given the high prevalence of pelvic 
floor dysfunction, especially rectal hyposensitivity, in this population. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 11: In patients with hEDS/HSDs and comorbid POTS who report 
chronic upper GI symptoms, timely diagnostic testing of gastric motor functions 
(eg, measurement of gastric emptying and/or accommodation) should be considered 
after appropriate exclusion of anatomical and structural diseases, as abnormal 
gastric emptying may be more common than in the general population. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 12: Medical management of GI symptoms in hEDS/HSDs and POTS/MCAS 
should focus on treating the most prominent GI symptoms and abnormal GI function 
test results. In addition to general DGBIs and GI motility disorder treatment, 
management should also include treating any symptoms attributable to POTS and/or 
MCAS. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 13: Treatment of POTS may include increasing fluid 
and salt intake, exercise training, and use of compression garments. Special 
pharmacological treatments for volume expansion, heart rate control, and 
vasoconstriction with integrated care from multiple specialties (eg, cardiology, 
neurology) should be considered in patients who do not respond to conservative 
lifestyle measures. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 14: When MCAS is suspected, patients 
can benefit from treatment with histamine receptor antagonists and/or mast cell 
stabilizers, in addition to avoiding triggers such as certain foods, alcohol, 
strong smells, temperature changes, mechanical stimuli (eg, friction), emotional 
distress (eg, pollen, mold), or specific medications (eg, opioids, nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory agents, iodinated contrast). BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 15: Besides 
general nutritional support, special diets including a gastroparesis diet (ie, 
small particle diet) and various elimination diets (eg, low fermentable 
carbohydrates, gluten- or dairy-free, low-histamine diets) can be considered for 
improving GI symptoms. Dietary interventions should be delivered with 
appropriate nutritional counseling or guidance to avoid the pitfalls of 
restrictive eating. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 16: Management of chronic GI symptoms 
in patients with hEDS/HSDs who do not exhibit symptoms consistent with POTS or 
MCAS should align with existing approaches to management of DGBI and GI motility 
disorders in the general population, including integrated multidisciplinary care 
involving multiple specialties, where appropriate (eg, cardiology, rheumatology, 
dietician, psychology).

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2025.02.015
PMID: 40387691


2. Acta Paediatr. 2023 Jul;112(7):1485-1492. doi: 10.1111/apa.16763. Epub 2023
Mar  28.

Infants were introduced to complementary feeding earlier in 2018 compared with 
2003.

Strömberg Celind F(1)(2), Goksör E(1), Carlén E(1), Schilling B(1), Alm B(1), 
Wennergren G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Gothenburg, Queen Silvia Children's 
Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Region Västra Götaland, Research and Development Primary Health Care and 
Mölndal Pediatric Clinic, Gothenburg, Sweden.

AIM: Until 2001, the Swedish advice was to postpone the introduction of eggs, 
fish and peanuts until the age of 1 year. One reason was to reduce the risk of 
food allergy. The earlier introduction of complementary feeding is now advised. 
Our aim was to study adherence to current recommendations and whether the time 
of introduction changed between 2003 and 2018.
METHODS: Data were obtained from two prospective, longitudinal, population-based 
cohort studies of children born in 2003 (n = 4987) and in 2018 (n = 3936). 
Parents answered comparable questionnaires when the children were 6 and 
12 months old.
RESULTS: At 6 months, in the 2018 cohort, eggs were introduced to 67.2% of the 
infants, fish to 78.9%, gluten to 89.1%, cow's milk to 76.6% and peanuts to 
46.2%. In adjusted Cox regression analyses, introduction of complementary 
feeding with gluten, fish and eggs was made significantly earlier in the 2018 
cohort compared with the 2003 cohort, adjusted for heredity, own allergic 
disease and parental educational level (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Complementary feeding with eggs, fish and gluten was introduced 
earlier in infants born in 2018 compared with 2003, possibly reducing the risk 
of developing allergic disease. Current recommendations from child welfare 
centres are being followed.

© 2023 The Authors. Acta Paediatrica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of Foundation Acta Paediatrica.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.16763
PMID: 36938913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Gastroenterol Hepatol Bed Bench. 2021 Fall;14(4):362-366.

Non-celiac gluten sensitivity as a rare cause of growth retardation in children: 
a case series study.

Saneifard H(1), Sheikhy A(2), Karbasian F(3), Eslamian G(4), Shakiba M(1), 
Babaie D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Metabolism, Mofid Children 
Hospital, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Research Department, Tehran Heart Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Pediatric Emergency, Mofid Children Hospital, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Mofid Children Hospital, 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

AIM: Herein, we present five children and adolescents with a final diagnosis of 
non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS).
BACKGROUND: Non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS) is a condition characterized by 
gastrointestinal and extra-intestinal symptoms triggered by ingestion of 
gluten-containing compounds, e.g., wheat, rye, and barley, in subjects without 
celiac disease or wheat allergy.
METHODS: Demographic characteristics, clinical manifestations, serum biomarkers 
and skin prick test were evaluated. Patient data was also recorded after they 
followed a gluten-free diet (GFD). Height and weight were measured, and all 
patients were examined 6 months after following the suggested GFD.
RESULTS: All patients had failure to thrive and abdominal pain. Clinical 
symptoms were reduced, and significant weight and height gains were detected 
after 1 month of following a gluten-free diet.
CONCLUSION: The relationship between failure to thrive (FTT) and NCGS is still 
unknown; hence, NCGS may be one of the main causes of FTT which can be prevented 
by gluten-free diets.

©2021 RIGLD, Research Institute for Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases.

PMCID: PMC8514215
PMID: 34659665

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


4. Gut Liver. 2016 Sep 15;10(5):842-50. doi: 10.5009/gnl15484.

Sensitization to and Challenge with Gliadin Induce Pancreatitis and 
Extrapancreatic Inflammation in HLA-DQ8 Mice: An Animal Model of Type 1 
Autoimmune Pancreatitis.

Moon SH(1), Kim J(2), Kim MY(3), Park do H(4), Song TJ(4), Kim SA(2), Lee SS(4), 
Seo DW(4), Lee SK(4), Kim MH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, 
Hallym University College of Medicine, Anyang, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University, 
Seongnam, Korea.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The aim of this study was to establish a pathogenetic mechanism 
of pancreatitis in celiac disease and IgG4-related disease using 
gluten-sensitive human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DQ8 transgenic mice.
METHODS: Transgenic mice expressing HLA-DQ8 genes were utilized. Control mice 
were not sensitized but were fed gliadin-free rice cereal. Experimental groups 
consisted of gliadin-sensitized and gliadin-challenged mice; nonsensitized mice 
with cerulein hyperstimulation; and gliadin-sensitized and gliadinchallenged 
mice with cerulein hyperstimulation.
RESULTS: Gliadin-sensitized and gliadin-challenged mice with cerulein 
hyperstimulation showed significant inflammatory cell infiltrates, fibrosis and 
acinar atrophy compared with the control mice and the other experimental groups. 
The immunohistochemical analysis showed greater IgG1-positive plasma cells in 
the inflammatory infiltrates of gliadin-sensitized and gliadin-challenged mice 
with cerulein hyperstimulation compared with the control mice and the other 
experimental groups. Gliadin-sensitized and gliadin-challenged mice with 
cerulein hyperstimulation or gliadin-sensitized and gliadinchallenged mice 
showed IgG1-stained inflammatory cell infiltrates in the extrapancreatic organs, 
including the bile ducts, salivary glands, kidneys, and lungs.
CONCLUSIONS: Gliadinsensitization and cerulein hyperstimulation of 
gluten-sensitive HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice resulted in pancreatitis and 
extrapancreatic inflammation. This animal model suggests that chronic gliadin 
ingestion in a susceptible individual with the HLA-DQ8 molecule may be 
associated with pancreatitis and extrapancreatic inflammation.

DOI: 10.5009/gnl15484
PMCID: PMC5003210
PMID: 27114422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. United European Gastroenterol J. 2014 Aug;2(4):254-62. doi: 
10.1177/2050640614535929.

Wheat-related disorders: A broad spectrum of 'evolving' diseases.

Gasbarrini G(1), Mangiola F(2).

Author information:
(1)Fondazione Ricerca in Medicina ONLUS, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Gastroenterology Division, Catholic 
University of Sacred Heart, Policlinico "A. Gemelli" Hospital, Roma, Italy.

Throughout the world, cereals have always been recognized as a fundamental food. 
Human evolution, through the development of cooking, led to the production of 
food rich in gluten, in order to take full advantage of the nutritional 
properties of this food. The result has been that gluten intolerance has arisen 
only in those populations that developed the art of cooking wheat. It is also 
recognized that wheat, one of the central elements of the Mediterranean diet, 
cannot be tolerated in some individuals. Among the wheat-related pathologies, 
coeliac disease is the best known: it is a chronic inflammatory condition 
affecting the gastrointestinal tract, which develops in genetically predisposed 
individuals. The most common manifestation is the malabsorption of nutrients. 
Recently, another wheat-related disease has appeared: non-coeliac gluten 
sensitivity, defined as the onset of a variety of manifestations related to 
wheat, rye and barley ingestion, in patients in whom coeliac disease and wheat 
allergy have been excluded. In this paper we will explore the damaging power of 
wheat, analysing the harmful process by which it realizes the onset of clinical 
manifestations associated with wheat-related disorders.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640614535929
PMCID: PMC4114114
PMID: 25083282


6. J Med Food. 2014 Nov;17(11):1159-64. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2014.0025. Epub 2014 Jul
 29.

Functional and metabolic disorders in celiac disease: new implications for 
nutritional treatment.

Farnetti S(1), Zocco MA, Garcovich M, Gasbarrini A, Capristo E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart , 
Rome, Italy .

Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic disease causing the inflammation of the 
proximal small intestine, in genetically predisposed individuals. This is 
triggered by the consumption of the gluten protein and the side effects of the 
disease are mitigated by a lifelong gluten-free diet (GFD) treatment. The 
predominant consequence of CD is malnutrition due to malabsorption (with 
diarrhea, weight loss, nutritional deficiencies, and altered blood parameters), 
especially in patients who do not show strict adherence to GFD treatment. Recent 
evidence shows that, despite a lifelong GFD, some functional disorders persist, 
such as compromised gallbladder function and motility, exocrine pancreatic 
insufficiency, increased gut permeability, small-intestinal bowel overgrowth, 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), lactose intolerance, and milk allergy. 
These abnormalities may predispose to the occurrence of overweight and obesity 
even in CD patients. This review focuses on the principal functional and 
metabolic disorders in both treated and untreated CD, ranging from alterations 
of the gastrointestinal system to impaired glucose and lipid metabolism and 
insulin secretion with the aim of providing new implications beyond a GFD, for 
an ad hoc nutrition treatment in these patients.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2014.0025
PMID: 25072743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Clin Exp Allergy. 1997 Oct;27(10):1120-9.

Identification of the major water/salt insoluble wheat proteins involved in 
cereal hypersensitivity.

Sandiford CP(1), Tatham AS, Fido R, Welch JA, Jones MG, Tee RD, Shewry PR, 
Newman Taylor AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Imperial College 
School of Medicine at the National Heart and Lung Institute, London, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Allergy. 1997 Oct;27(10):1111-3.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have investigated water/salt soluble proteins which 
comprise 50% of the proteins in wheat. The remaining 50% of wheat proteins, are 
water/salt insoluble proteins of which there is limited information on their 
role in cereal hypersensitivity.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the allergenicity of the water/salt insoluble gliadin 
and glutenin proteins (prolamins).
METHODS: RAST, electrophoresis and Western blotting were used to identify 
water/salt insoluble wheat allergens. Competitive RAST inhibition was conducted 
to investigate cross-reactivity between prolamins and water/salt soluble wheat 
proteins.
RESULTS: Specific IgE to alpha-gliadin and to total glutenins were detected in 
all sera. IgE to beta-, gamma-, fast omega-, and slow omega-gliadin were present 
in lower numbers of sera. Prolamin allergens of 90-11 kDa were identified by 
immunoblotting. Water/salt soluble proteins crossreacted with alpha-gliadin and 
total glutenins.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals who are hypersensitive to water/salt soluble wheat 
proteins produce specific IgE to water/salt insoluble wheat proteins. Western 
blotting has shown that gliadins, glutenins and proteins with similar molecular 
weights as the endogenous water/salt soluble wheat enzyme inhibitors are 
important allergens. Alpha and fast omega- are the most allergenic gliadins. The 
water/salt insoluble proteins share cross-reacting epitopes with water/salt 
soluble proteins. These data show that the numbers of proteins involved in the 
development of cereal hypersensitivity is greater than previously believed and 
that the development of specific IgE to alpha-gliadin may in part depend on the 
presence of cross-reacting antibodies to water/salt soluble flour allergens.

PMID: 9383251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nutr Health. 1984;3(1-2):91-111. doi: 10.1177/026010608400300208.

Down's syndrome: nutritional intervention.

Reading CM.

Down's Syndrome patients are known to be of short stature, prone to infections, 
autoimmune disease, hypothyroidism, leukaemia, heart defects and later 
Alzheimer's disease. They tend to have older mothers, like Alzheimer's disease 
patients. The latter tend to have sibs with either Down's Syndrome or 
lymphoma/leukaemia. Evidence, looking at 28 Down's Syndrome patients, suggests 
that multiple food allergies, gluten-gliadin sensitivity or intolerance are 
causing a coeliac disease-like picture with a malabsorption state for essential 
vitamins, minerals and severe autoimmune disease. It is hoped that missed 
gluten-gliadin sensitivity or intolerance with or without coeliac disease will 
be considered as a cause of abnormal oogenesis and spermatogenesis resulting in 
trisomy 21 and other aneuploidies. The mechanism most likely is low B1 
interfering with sufficient release of cAMP for normal meiosis. Alternatively 
exorphins and peptides from foods may suppress prostaglandin E1 synthesis, or 
food sensitivities may alter toxic metal absorption mechanisms, which are 
thought to play a role in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Adequate 
vitamin/mineral supplementation, especially B1, prior to conception and in the 
first trimester is recommended for mothers at risk for DS, especially older 
mothers and a gluten free diet for those with coeliac disease or gluten-gliadin 
sensitivity/intolerance. Hopefully this will prevent conception of a DS child, 
or prevent heart defects/stigmata if one is conceived. DS children should be 
investigated for the above and commence a food allergy free diet with relevant 
supplements to meet their needs as early as maximum development.

DOI: 10.1177/026010608400300208
PMID: 6242480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Lancet. 1976 Jul 17;2(7977):125-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(76)92848-8.

Dietary antibodies and myocardial infarction.

Scott BB, Swinburne ML, McGuffin P, Losowsky MS.

Serum milk, egg, and gluten antibody titres were measured in ninety men with 
acute myocardial infarction and compared with those of thirty-six age-matched 
male controls. None of the antibody titres was higher in the patients with 
myocardial infarction, nor was there a significant correlation between antibody 
titres and the Norris prognostic index or death before hospital discharge. The 
results do not support the suggestion that immunological mechanisms are involved 
in the pathogenesis of coronary heart-disease and atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(76)92848-8
PMID: 59187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]