1. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2025 May 19:S1542-3565(25)00318-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2025.02.015. Online ahead of print.

Clinical Practice Updates: AGA Clinical Practice Update on GI Manifestations and 
Autonomic or Immune Dysfunction in Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: Expert 
Review.

Aziz Q(1), Harris LA(2), Goodman BP(3), Simrén M(4), Shin A(5).

Author information:
(1)Blizard Institute, Wingate Institute of Neurogastroenterology, Centre for 
Neuroscience, Surgery and Trauma, Barts and the London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Queen Mary University, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, 
Arizona. Electronic address: harris.lucinda@mayo.edu.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona.
(4)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Vatche and Tamar Manoukian Division of Digestive Diseases, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

DESCRIPTION: The purpose of this Clinical Practice Update Expert Review is to 
describe key principles in the evaluation and management of patients with 
disorders of gut-brain interaction (DGBI) and hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome 
(hEDS) or hypermobility spectrum disorders (HSDs) with coexisting postural 
orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) and/or mast cell activation syndrome 
(MCAS).
METHODS: This expert review/commentary was commissioned and approved by the 
American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Institute Clinical Practice 
Updates Committee and the AGA Governing Board to provide timely guidance on a 
topic of high clinical importance to the AGA membership, and underwent internal 
peer review by the Clinical Practice Updates Committee and external peer review 
through standard procedures of Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology. These 
Best Practice Advice statements were drawn from a review of the published 
literature and from expert opinion. Because systematic reviews were not 
performed, these Best Practice Advice statements do not carry formal ratings 
regarding the quality of evidence or strength of the presented considerations. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 1: Clinicians should be aware of the observed associations 
between hEDS or HSDs and POTS and/or MCAS and their overlapping gastrointestinal 
(GI) manifestations; while theoretical explanations exist, experimental evidence 
of the biological mechanisms that explain relationships is limited and evolving. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 2: Testing for POTS/MCAS should be targeted to patients 
presenting with clinical manifestations of POTS/MCAS, but universal testing for 
POTS/MCAS in all patients with hEDS/HSDs is not supported by the current 
evidence. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 3: Gastroenterologists seeing patients with DGBI 
should inquire about joint hypermobility and strongly consider incorporating the 
Beighton score for assessing joint hypermobility into their practice as a 
screening tool; if the screen is positive, gastroenterologists may consider 
applying 2017 diagnostic criteria to diagnose hEDS 
(https://www.ehlers-danlos.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/hEDS-Dx-Criteria-checklist-1.pdf) 
or offer appropriate referral to a specialist where resources are available. 
BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 4: Testing for POTS through postural vital signs (eg, 
symptomatic increase in heart rate of 30 beats/min or more with 10 minutes of 
standing during an active stand or head-up tilt table test in the absence of 
orthostasis) and referral to specialty practices (eg, cardiology or neurology) 
for autonomic testing should be considered in patients with hEDS/HSDs and 
refractory GI symptoms who also report orthostatic intolerance after exclusion 
of medication side effects and appropriate lifestyle or behavioral modifications 
(eg, adequate hydration and physical exercise) have been attempted but is not 
required for all patients with hEDS/HSDs who report GI symptoms alone. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 5: In patients presenting to gastroenterology providers, testing 
for mast cell disorders including MCAS should be considered in patients with 
hEDS/HSDs and DGBI who also present with episodic symptoms that suggest a more 
generalized mast cell disorder (eg, visceral and somatic pain, pruritus, 
flushing, sweating, urticaria, angioedema, wheezing, tachycardia, abdominal 
cramping, vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, urogynecological and neurological 
complaints) involving 2 or more physiological systems (eg, cutaneous, GI, 
cardiac, respiratory, and neuropsychiatric), but current data do not support the 
use of these tests for routine evaluation of GI symptoms in all patients with 
hEDS/HSDs without clinical or laboratory evidence of a primary or secondary mast 
cell disorder. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 6: If MCAS is suspected, diagnostic testing 
with serum tryptase levels collected at baseline and 1-4 hours following symptom 
flares may be considered by the gastroenterologist; increases of 20% above 
baseline plus 2 ng/mL are necessary to demonstrate evidence of mast cell 
activation. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 7: If a diagnosis of MCAS is supported through 
clinical and/or laboratory features, patients should be referred to an allergy 
specialist or mast cell disease research center where additional testing (eg, 
urinary N-methylhistamine, leukotriene E4, 11β-prostaglandin F2) may be 
performed. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 8: Diagnostic evaluation of GI symptoms 
consistent with DGBI in patients with hEDS/HSDs and comorbid POTS and/or MCAS 
should follow a similar approach to the evaluation of DGBI as in the general 
population including the use of a positive symptom-based diagnostic strategy and 
limited noninvasive testing. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 9: Testing for celiac disease 
may be considered earlier in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with 
hEDS/HSDs who report a variety of GI symptoms and not only limited to those with 
diarrhea. There is insufficient research to support routine testing for 
disaccharidase deficiencies or other diet-mediated mechanisms as causes of GI 
symptoms in hEDS/HSDs. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 10: Diagnostic testing for 
functional defecation disorders with anorectal manometry, balloon expulsion 
test, or defecography should be considered in patients with hEDS/HSDs and lower 
GI symptoms such as incomplete evacuation given the high prevalence of pelvic 
floor dysfunction, especially rectal hyposensitivity, in this population. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 11: In patients with hEDS/HSDs and comorbid POTS who report 
chronic upper GI symptoms, timely diagnostic testing of gastric motor functions 
(eg, measurement of gastric emptying and/or accommodation) should be considered 
after appropriate exclusion of anatomical and structural diseases, as abnormal 
gastric emptying may be more common than in the general population. BEST 
PRACTICE ADVICE 12: Medical management of GI symptoms in hEDS/HSDs and POTS/MCAS 
should focus on treating the most prominent GI symptoms and abnormal GI function 
test results. In addition to general DGBIs and GI motility disorder treatment, 
management should also include treating any symptoms attributable to POTS and/or 
MCAS. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 13: Treatment of POTS may include increasing fluid 
and salt intake, exercise training, and use of compression garments. Special 
pharmacological treatments for volume expansion, heart rate control, and 
vasoconstriction with integrated care from multiple specialties (eg, cardiology, 
neurology) should be considered in patients who do not respond to conservative 
lifestyle measures. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 14: When MCAS is suspected, patients 
can benefit from treatment with histamine receptor antagonists and/or mast cell 
stabilizers, in addition to avoiding triggers such as certain foods, alcohol, 
strong smells, temperature changes, mechanical stimuli (eg, friction), emotional 
distress (eg, pollen, mold), or specific medications (eg, opioids, nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory agents, iodinated contrast). BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 15: Besides 
general nutritional support, special diets including a gastroparesis diet (ie, 
small particle diet) and various elimination diets (eg, low fermentable 
carbohydrates, gluten- or dairy-free, low-histamine diets) can be considered for 
improving GI symptoms. Dietary interventions should be delivered with 
appropriate nutritional counseling or guidance to avoid the pitfalls of 
restrictive eating. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 16: Management of chronic GI symptoms 
in patients with hEDS/HSDs who do not exhibit symptoms consistent with POTS or 
MCAS should align with existing approaches to management of DGBI and GI motility 
disorders in the general population, including integrated multidisciplinary care 
involving multiple specialties, where appropriate (eg, cardiology, rheumatology, 
dietician, psychology).

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2025.02.015
PMID: 40387691


2. PLoS Pathog. 2025 Apr 9;21(4):e1013080. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1013080. 
eCollection 2025 Apr.

Genome-wide analysis of fitness determinants of Staphylococcus aureus during 
growth in milk.

Mårli MT(1), Nordraak AOO(1), de Bakker V(2), Winther AR(1), Liu X(2)(3), 
Veening JW(2), Porcellato D(1), Kjos M(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University of 
Life Sciences, Ås, Norway.
(2)Department of Fundamental Microbiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(3)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Regional Immunity and Diseases, 
Department of Pathogen Biology, Shenzhen University Medical School, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong, China.

Staphylococcus aureus is a major concern in the dairy industry due to its 
significance as a pathogen causing bovine mastitis as well as a source of food 
poisoning. The nutrient-rich milk environment supports bacterial growth, but the 
specific genetic determinants that facilitate S. aureus proliferation and 
persistence in milk are poorly understood. In this study, we conducted a 
genome-wide CRISPR interference sequencing (CRISPRi-seq) screen with the 
laboratory strain S. aureus NCTC8325-4, to identify fitness determinants 
essential for S. aureus growth and survival in milk. We identified 282 
milk-essential genes, including those with key roles in DNA replication, protein 
synthesis, and metabolism. Comparative analysis with brain heart infusion (BHI) 
as growth medium, revealed 79 genes with differential fitness, highlighting 
specific adaptations required for growth in milk. Notably, we found that purine 
biosynthesis, folate cycle pathways, and metal acquisition were particularly 
important in this environment. Based on this, we further demonstrate that S. 
aureus is more sensitive to the folate inhibitors trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 
(TMP-SMX) in milk and identify several genes whose knockdown results in 
hypersensitivity to TMP-SMX in milk. Additionally, our analysis showed a 
relatively reduced importance of cell wall components, such as teichoic acids, 
for S. aureus fitness in milk, which is also reflected in reduced efficiency of 
antimicrobials targeting teichoic acids. Together, these findings provide new 
insights into the genetic basis of S. aureus fitness and antibiotic 
susceptibility in milk, offering directions for novel treatment strategies 
against bovine mastitis.

Copyright: © 2025 Mårli et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1013080
PMCID: PMC12011298
PMID: 40203072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


3. Cell Mol Immunol. 2025 Mar;22(3):211-242. doi: 10.1038/s41423-025-01261-2.
Epub  2025 Feb 17.

Type 2 immunity in allergic diseases.

Ogulur I(#)(1), Mitamura Y(#)(1), Yazici D(1), Pat Y(1), Ardicli S(1)(2), Li 
M(1), D'Avino P(1), Beha C(1), Babayev H(1), Zhao B(1), Zeyneloglu C(1), 
Giannelli Viscardi O(1), Ardicli O(1)(3), Kiykim A(1)(4), Garcia-Sanchez 
A(1)(5), Lopez JF(1), Shi LL(1)(6), Yang M(1), Schneider SR(1), Skolnick 
S(1)(7), Dhir R(7), Radzikowska U(1), Kulkarni AJ(1), Imam MB(1), Veen WV(1), 
Sokolowska M(1), Martin-Fontecha M(8), Palomares O(9), Nadeau KC(10), Akdis 
M(1), Akdis CA(11).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa Uludag 
University, Bursa, Turkey.
(3)Division of Food Processing, Milk and Dairy Products Technology Program, 
Karacabey Vocational School, Bursa Uludag University, Bursa, Turkey.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, 
Cerrahpasa School of Medicine, Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Science, School of Medicine, 
University of Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain.
(6)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Tongji Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, P.R. 
China.
(7)Seed Health Inc., Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(8)Departamento de Quimica Organica, Facultad de Optica y Optometria, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Chemistry, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(10)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland. akdisac@siaf.uzh.ch.
(#)Contributed equally

Significant advancements have been made in understanding the cellular and 
molecular mechanisms of type 2 immunity in allergic diseases such as asthma, 
allergic rhinitis, chronic rhinosinusitis, eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), food 
and drug allergies, and atopic dermatitis (AD). Type 2 immunity has evolved to 
protect against parasitic diseases and toxins, plays a role in the expulsion of 
parasites and larvae from inner tissues to the lumen and outside the body, 
maintains microbe-rich skin and mucosal epithelial barriers and counterbalances 
the type 1 immune response and its destructive effects. During the development 
of a type 2 immune response, an innate immune response initiates starting from 
epithelial cells and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), including dendritic cells and 
macrophages, and translates to adaptive T and B-cell immunity, particularly IgE 
antibody production. Eosinophils, mast cells and basophils have effects on 
effector functions. Cytokines from ILC2s and CD4+ helper type 2 (Th2) cells, 
CD8 + T cells, and NK-T cells, along with myeloid cells, including IL-4, IL-5, 
IL-9, and IL-13, initiate and sustain allergic inflammation via T cell cells, 
eosinophils, and ILC2s; promote IgE class switching; and open the epithelial 
barrier. Epithelial cell activation, alarmin release and barrier dysfunction are 
key in the development of not only allergic diseases but also many other 
systemic diseases. Recent biologics targeting the pathways and effector 
functions of IL4/IL13, IL-5, and IgE have shown promising results for almost all 
ages, although some patients with severe allergic diseases do not respond to 
these therapies, highlighting the unmet need for a more detailed and 
personalized approach.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41423-025-01261-2
PMCID: PMC11868591
PMID: 39962262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: S.S. is currently a 
salaried employee of Seed Health, a probiotic retailer. R.D. is a cofounder and 
CEO in Seed Health. W.V. has received research grants from PROMEDICA Stiftung, 
Switzerland, and EoE Stiftung, Switzerland, and consulting fees from Mabylon AG, 
Switzerland. M.S. has received research grants from the Swiss National Science 
Foundation (SNSF nr 310030_189334/1 and 320030E_224154), GSK, Novartis, Stiftung 
vorm. Bündner Heilstätte Arosa, Thermofisher and OM Pharma, speaker’s fee from 
AstraZeneca and consults for Roche. She is a member-at-large of the European 
Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) and EAACI Educational Events 
Committee Chair. O.P. received research grants from MINECO, Ministerio de 
Ciencia e Innovación, CAM, Inmunotek S.L., Novartis, and AstraZeneca and fees 
for giving scientific lectures or participation in Advisory Boards from 
AstraZeneca, Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Inmunotek S.L., Novartis and 
Sanofi-Genzyme. K.C.N. reports grants from the National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), 
and from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), other 
from the Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), other from National Institutes of 
Health (NIH) clinical research centers, during the conduct of the study; other 
from IgGenix, other from Seed Health, other from ClostraBio, other from Cour, 
other from Alladapt, other from Excellergy, other from Red Tree Ventures, other 
from Regeneron, other from Latitude, outside the submitted work. In addition, 
K.C.N. has the following patents: “Mixed allergen composition and methods for 
using the same”, “Granulocyte-based methods for detecting and monitoring immune 
system disorders”, and “Methods and Assays for Detecting and Quantifying Pure 
Subpopulations of White Blood Cells in Immune System Disorders”. M.A. has 
received research grants from the Swiss National Science Foundation, Bern; 
research grants from Stanford University; Leading House for the Latin American 
Region; and Seed Money Grants. She is a Scientific Advisory Board member of 
Stanford University-Sean Parker Asthma Allergy Center, CA; an Advisory Board 
member of the LEO Foundation Skin Immunology Research Center, Copenhagen; and a 
Scientific Co-Chair of the World Allergy Congress (WAC) Istanbul, 2022, 
Scientific Programme Committee Chair, EAACI. C.A.A. has received research grants 
from the Swiss National Science Foundation, European Union (EU CURE, EU 
Syn-Air-G), Novartis Research Institutes (Basel, Switzerland), Stanford 
University (Redwood City, Calif), Seed Health (Boston, USA), AO Research 
Institute (Davos, Switzerland) and SciBase (Stockholm, Sweden). He is the 
cochair for the EAACI Guidelines on Environmental Science in Allergic Diseases 
and Asthma; Chair of the EAACI Epithelial Cell Biology Working Group. Serves on 
the Advisory Boards of Sanofi/Regeneron (Bern, Switzerland, New York, USA), 
Stanford University Sean Parker Asthma Allergy Center (CA, USA), Novartis 
(Basel, Switzerland), GlaxoSmithKline (Zurich, Switzerland), Bristol-Myers 
Squibb (New York, USA), Seed Health (Boston, USA) and SciBase (Stockholm, 
Sweden). C.A.A. is the Editor-in-Chief of Allergy. I.O., Y.M., D.Y., Y.P., S.A., 
M.L., P.D’A., C.B., H.B., B.Z., C.Z., O.G.V., O.A., A.K., A.G.-S., J.-F.L., 
L.S., M.Y., S.R.S., U.R., A.J.K., M.B.I, and M.M.-F. declare no relevant 
conflicts of interest.


4. Allergy. 2024 Dec;79(12):3192-3237. doi: 10.1111/all.16318. Epub 2024 Oct 7.

The epithelial barrier theory and its associated diseases.

Sun N(1)(2), Ogulur I(1), Mitamura Y(1), Yazici D(1), Pat Y(1), Bu X(1), Li 
M(1), Zhu X(1), Babayev H(1), Ardicli S(1)(3), Ardicli O(1)(4), D'Avino P(1), 
Kiykim A(1)(5), Sokolowska M(1), van de Veen W(1), Weidmann L(6), Akdis D(7), 
Ozdemir BG(8), Brüggen MC(9)(10)(11), Biedermann L(12), Straumann A(12), 
Kreienbühl A(12), Guttman-Yassky E(13), Santos AF(14)(15)(16), Del Giacco S(17), 
Traidl-Hoffmann C(18), Jackson DJ(19)(20), Wang DY(21), Lauerma A(22), 
Breiteneder H(23), Zhang L(24)(25), O'Mahony L(26)(27), Pfaar O(28), O'Hehir 
R(29)(30), Eiwegger T(31)(32)(33)(34), Fokkens WJ(35), Cabanillas B(36), Ozdemir 
C(37)(38), Kistler W(39)(40)(41), Bayik M(42), Nadeau KC(43), Torres MJ(44), 
Akdis M(1), Jutel M(45), Agache I(46), Akdis CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), University of Zurich, 
Davos, Switzerland.
(2)SKL of Marine Food Processing & Safety Control, National Engineering Research 
Center of Seafood, School of Food Science and Technology, Dalian Polytechnic 
University, Dalian, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa Uludag 
University, Bursa, Turkey.
(4)Division of Food Processing, Milk and Dairy Products Technology Program, 
Karacabey Vocational School, Bursa Uludag University, Bursa, Turkey.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, 
Cerrahpasa School of Medicine, Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(6)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(8)Obstetrician and Gynecologist, Nisantasi, Istanbul, Turkey.
(9)Christine Kühne-Center for Allergy Research and Education (CK-CARE), Davos, 
Switzerland.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(11)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(12)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Zurich, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(13)Department of Dermatology, and Laboratory of Inflammatory Skin Diseases, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Department of Women and Children's Health (Pediatric Allergy), School of 
Life Course Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College 
London, London, UK.
(15)Children's Allergy Service, Evelina London Children's Hospital, Guy's and 
St. Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.
(16)Peter Gorer Department of Immunobiology, School of Immunology and Microbial 
Sciences, King's College London, London, UK.
(17)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy.
(18)Environmental Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Augsburg, 
Augsburg, Germany.
(19)Guy's Severe Asthma Centre, Guy's Hospital, Guy's & St Thomas' NHS Trust, 
London, UK.
(20)School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences, King's College London, London, 
UK.
(21)Department of Otolaryngology, Infectious Diseases Translational Research 
Programme, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, 
National University Health System, Singapore City, Singapore.
(22)Department of Dermatology, Helsinki University Hospital and University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(23)Department of Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Medical University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(24)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Beijing Tongren 
Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(25)Beijing Laboratory of Allergic Diseases and Beijing Key Laboratory of Nasal 
Diseases, Beijing Institute of Otolaryngology, Beijing, China.
(26)Department of Medicine and School of Microbiology, University College Cork, 
Cork, Ireland.
(27)APC Microbiome Ireland, Cork, Ireland.
(28)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Section of 
Rhinology and Allergy, University Hospital Marburg, Philipps-Universität 
Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(29)Allergy, Asthma & Clinical Immunology, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(30)Department of Immunology, School of Translational Medicine, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(31)Translational Medicine Program, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(32)Department of Immunology, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(33)Karl Landsteiner University of Health Sciences, Krems an der Donau, Austria.
(34)Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, University Hospital St. 
Pölten, St. Pölten, Austria.
(35)Department of Otorhinolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery, Amsterdam UMC, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(36)Department of Allergy, Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria Hospital 12 
de Octubre (imas12), Madrid, Spain.
(37)Department of Pediatric Basic Sciences, Institute of Child Health, Istanbul 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(38)Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Division of 
Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(39)Department of Sports Medicine, Davos Hospital, Davos, Switzerland.
(40)Swiss Research Institute for Sports Medicine (SRISM), Davos, Switzerland.
(41)Medical Committee International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF), Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(42)Department of Internal Medicine and Hematology, Marmara University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(43)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(44)Allergy Unit, IBIMA-Hospital Regional Universitario de Málaga-ARADyAL, UMA, 
Málaga, Spain.
(45)Department of Clinical Immunology, Wrocław Medical University, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(46)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, 
Transylvania University, Brasov, Romania.

The prevalence of many chronic noncommunicable diseases has been steadily rising 
over the past six decades. During this time, over 350,000 new chemical 
substances have been introduced to the lives of humans. In recent years, the 
epithelial barrier theory came to light explaining the growing prevalence and 
exacerbations of these diseases worldwide. It attributes their onset to a 
functionally impaired epithelial barrier triggered by the toxicity of the 
exposed substances, associated with microbial dysbiosis, immune system 
activation, and inflammation. Diseases encompassed by the epithelial barrier 
theory share common features such as an increased prevalence after the 1960s or 
2000s that cannot (solely) be accounted for by the emergence of improved 
diagnostic methods. Other common traits include epithelial barrier defects, 
microbial dysbiosis with loss of commensals and colonization of opportunistic 
pathogens, and circulating inflammatory cells and cytokines. In addition, 
practically unrelated diseases that fulfill these criteria have started to 
emerge as multimorbidities during the last decades. Here, we provide a 
comprehensive overview of diseases encompassed by the epithelial barrier theory 
and discuss evidence and similarities for their epidemiology, genetic 
susceptibility, epithelial barrier dysfunction, microbial dysbiosis, and tissue 
inflammation.

© 2024 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.16318
PMCID: PMC11657050
PMID: 39370939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.S. has received research grants from the Swiss 
National Science Foundation (SNSF no.: 310030_189334/1), GSK, Novartis, Stiftung 
vorm. Bündner Heilstätte Arosa and OM Pharma as well as speaker's fee from 
AstraZeneca. W.V. has received research grants from PROMEDICA Stiftung, 
Switzerland, and EoE Stiftung, Switzerland, and consulting fees form Mabylon AG, 
Switzerland. M.C.B. reports grants from the Swiss National Science Foundation, 
Christine Kühne‐Center for Allergy Research and Education, Leo Foundation, LEO 
Pharmacy, and Freenovation, advisory board fees from AstraZeneca, Almirall, LEO 
Pharma, lecture honorarium from Almirall and AstraZeneca, and patient education 
grant from AstraZeneca and GSK. A.S. has currently consultant contracts with 
Astra‐Seneca, BMS‐Receptos, Calypso, EsoCap, Falk‐Pharma, GSK, and 
Sanofi‐Regeneron. E.G.Y. is an employee of Mount Sinai and has received research 
grants from and/or is a consultant for: Research Grants (paid to the 
institution): Boehringer Ingelheim, Leo Pharma, Pfizer, Cara Therapeutics, UCB, 
Kyowa Kirin, RAPT, Amgen, GSK, Incyte, Sanofi, Bristol Meyers Squibb, Aslan, 
Regeneron, Anaptysbio, Concert, Janssen. Consultant: Abbvie, Aclaris, Almirall, 
Amgen, AnaptysBio, Apogee Therapeutics, Apollo Therapeutics Limited, Artax 
Biopharma Inc., AstraZeneca, Bristol Meyers Squibb, Boerhinger‐Ingelhiem, Cara 
Therapeutics, Centrexion Therapeutics Corporation, Connect Biopharm, DBV 
TECHNOLOGIES, Eli Lilly, Enveda Biosciences, Escient Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 
Fairmount Funds Management LLC, Forest Laboratories Galderma, Gate Bio, Google 
Ventures (GV), GSK Immunology, Horizon Therapeutics USA, Inc., Incyte, Inmagene, 
Janssen Biotech, JT Central Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Jasper 
Therapeutics, Kyowa Kirin, Leo Pharma, Merck, Nektar Therapeutics, Novartis 
Pharmaceuticals Corporation, NUMAB Therapeutics AG, OrbiMed Advisors LLC, 
OTSUKA, Pfizer, Pharmaxis Ltd, Pioneering Medicine VII, Inc., Proteologix US 
Inc, RAPT, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, RibonTherapeutics, Inc., Sanofi, SATO, 
Schrödinger Inc., Sun Pharma Advanced Research Company (SPARC), Teva Branded 
Pharmaceutical Products R&D, UCB. A.F.S. reports grants from the Medical 
Research Council (MR/M008517/1; MC/PC/18052; MR/T032081/1), Food Allergy 
Research and Education (FARE), the Immune Tolerance Network/National Institute 
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID, NIH), Asthma UK (AUK‐BC‐2015‐01), 
BBSRC, Rosetrees Trust and the NIHR through the Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) 
award to Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, during the conduct of the 
study; personal fees from Thermo Scientific, Nestle, Novartis, Allergy 
Therapeutics, IgGenix, Buhlmann, as well as research support from IgGenix, 
Buhlmann, and Thermo Fisher Scientific through a collaboration agreement with 
King's College London. S.D.G. reports speaker fees from AstraZeneca, Chiesi, 
GSK, Novartis, Sanofi, Stallergenes and Takeda; advisory board fees from 
AstraZeneca, Chiesi, CSL‐Behring, GSK, Novartis, Sanofi, Takeda; unrestricted 
research grants from AstraZeneca, CSL‐Behring, GSK, Novartis, and Sanofi. O.P. 
reports grants and/or personal fees and/or travel support from ALK‐Abelló, 
Allergopharma, Stallergenes Greer, HAL Allergy Holding B.V./HAL Allergie GmbH, 
Bencard Allergie GmbH/Allergy Therapeutics, Laboratorios LETI/LETI Pharma, 
GlaxoSmithKline, ROXALL Medizin, Novartis, Sanofi‐Aventis and Sanofi‐Genzyme, 
Med Update Europe GmbH, streamedup! GmbH, Pohl‐Boskamp, Inmunotek S.L., John 
Wiley and Sons/AS, Paul‐Martini‐Stiftung (PMS), Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., 
RG Aerztefortbildung, Institut für Disease Management, Springer GmbH, 
AstraZeneca, IQVIA Commercial, Ingress Health, Wort&Bild Verlag, Verlag ME, 
Procter&Gamble, ALTAMIRA, Meinhardt Congress GmbH, Deutsche 
Forschungsgemeinschaft, Thieme, Deutsche AllergieLiga e.V., AeDA, Alfried‐Krupp 
Krankenhaus, Red Maple Trials Inc., Königlich Dänisches Generalkonsulat, 
Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, ECM Expro&Conference Management, Technical 
University Dresden, Lilly, Japanese Society of Allergy, Forum für Medizinische 
Fortbildung, Dustri‐Verlag, Pneumolive, ASIT Biotech, LOFARMA, Almirall, 
Paul‐Ehrlich‐Institut, outside the submitted work, and he is member of EAACI 
Excom, member of ext. board of directors DGAKI; coordinator, main‐ or co‐author 
of different position papers and guidelines in rhinology, allergology and 
allergen‐immunotherapy; he is associate editor (AE) of Allergy and Clinical 
Translational Allergy. T.E. reports personal fees from Danone/Nutricia/Milupa, 
grants from DBV, non‐financial support from Novartis, personal fees from Thermo 
Fisher, personal fees from Aimmune, grants and personal fees from ALK, 
non‐financial support from MADX, personal fees from EFSA, outside the submitted 
work, and I am the Co‐I or scientific lead in three investigator‐initiated oral 
immunotherapy trials supported by the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Program 
Sickkids and serve as associate editor for Allergy. Site PI of company sponsored 
trials by DBV, Novartis, and Stallergen. C.O. is Assistant Editor of Allergy, 
EAACI Allied Health & Primary Care Section chair. K.N. currently reports grants 
from National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences (NIEHS); Stock options from IgGenix, Seed Health, ClostraBio, 
Cour, Alladapt; Consultant for Excellergy, Red tree ventures, Regeneron, and 
IgGenix; Co‐founder of Alladapt, Latitude, and IgGenix; National Scientific 
Committee member at Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), and National Institutes of 
Health (NIH) clinical research centers; patents include, “Mixed allergen 
com‐position and methods for using the same,” “Granulocyte‐based methods for 
detecting and monitoring immune system disorders,” and “Methods and Assays for 
Detecting and Quantifying Pure Subpopulations of White Blood Cells in Immune 
System Disorders.” M.A. has received research grants from the Swiss National 
Science Foundation, Bern; research grant from the Stanford University; Leading 
House for the Latin American Region, Seed Money Grant. She is in the Scientific 
Advisory Board member of Stanford University Sean Parker Asthma Allergy Center, 
CA; Advisory Board member of LEO Foundation Skin Immunology Research Center, 
Copenhagen; and Scientific Co‐Chair of World Allergy Congress (WAC) Istanbul, 
2022, Scientific Programme Committee Chair, EAACI. M.J. reports personal fees 
outside of submitted work from Allergopharma, ALK‐Abello, Stallergenes, Anergis, 
Allergy Therapeutics, Leti, HAL, GSK, Novartis, Teva, Takeda, Chiesi, Pfizer, 
Regeneron, Astra‐Zeneka, Lallemand, Shire, Celltrion Inc., Genentech, Roche, 
Verona, Lek Pharmaceuticals, Arcutis Biotherapeutics and FAES FARMA. I.A. 
reports Deputy Editor of Allergy journal. C.A.A. has received research grants 
from the Swiss National Science Foundation, European Union (EU CURE, EU 
Syn‐Air‐G), Novartis Research Institutes (Basel, Switzerland), Stanford 
University (Redwood City, Calif), Seed Health (Boston, USA) and SciBase 
(Stockholm, Sweden); is the Co‐Chair for EAACI Guidelines on Environmental 
Science in Allergic diseases and Asthma; Chair of the EAACI Epithelial Cell 
Biology Working Group is on the Advisory Boards of Sanofi/Regeneron (Bern, 
Switzerland, New York, USA), Stanford University Sean Parker Asthma Allergy 
Center (CA, USA), Novartis (Basel, Switzerland), Glaxo Smith Kline (Zurich, 
Switzerland), Bristol‐Myers Squibb (New York, USA), Seed Health (Boston, USA), 
and SciBase (Stockholm, Sweden); and is the Editor‐in‐Chief of Allergy. N.S., 
I.O., Y.M., D.Y., Y.P., X.B., M.L., X.Z., H.B., S.A., O.A., P.D., A.K., L.W., 
D.A., B.G.O. L.B., A.K., C.T.H., D.J.J., D.Y.W., A.L., H.B., L.Z., L.O.M., 
R.O.H., W.J.F., B.C., K.W., M.B., and M.J.T declare no relevant conflict of 
interest. N.S. reports grants from CSC scholarship program of China (No. 
202008210164). D.A. reports grants and personal fees, outside the submitted 
work, from the Swiss National Science Foundation, the Swiss Heart Foundation and 
Boehringer Ingelheim. L.B. reports advisory from Abbvie, Amgen, BMS, Falk, 
Janssen, Pfizer, Lilly, Takeda, Sanofi, Esocap, and speaker fees from Takeda, 
Sanofi, Abbvie, Lilly, Falk, BMS and Pfizer. D.J.J. has received speaker fees 
and consultancy fees from AZ, GSK and Sanofi. L.O.M. is a consultant to 
PrecisionBiotics and has received research funding from GSK, Chiesi, Reckitt and 
Fonterra. He has participated in speaker's bureau for Nestle, Nutricia, Reckitt 
and Abbott.


5. BMC Pediatr. 2023 Oct 16;23(1):514. doi: 10.1186/s12887-023-04262-0.

Timing of introduction to solid food, eczema and wheezing in later childhood: a 
longitudinal cohort study.

D'Hollander CJ(1)(2)(3), Keown-Stoneman CDG(3)(4), Birken CS(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), 
O'Connor DL(1)(10), Maguire JL(11)(12)(13)(14)(15); TARGet Kids! collaboration.

Collaborators: Allen C, Anderson LN, D'Annunzio D, Jaleel M, McFarlane NL, Omand 
JA, Thadani S, Aglipay M, Bayoumi I, Borkhoff CM, Carsley S, Charach A, Cost K, 
Fuller A, Kinlin L, Kucab M, Li P, Parkin P, Persaud N, Rae S, Socynska I, 
Vanderhout S, Vanderloo L, Wong P, Mudiyanselage PK, Li X, Liu J, Mitchell M, 
Yoshida-Montezuma Y, Zaffar N, Bondoc T, Buckley TA, Flores PR, Kurt K, 
Loganathan S, Mali T, Thompson L, Batten J, Chan J, Clark J, Craig A, De 
Castris-Garcia K, Dharman S, Kelleher S, Nasser S, Pabon T, Rhodes M, Salsa R, 
Skelding J, Stern D, Stewart K, Tavares ES, Weir S, Cho MZ, Janus M, Duku E, 
Reid-Westoby C, Raso P, Offord A, Abraham E, Ali S, Anderson K, Arbess G, Baker 
J, Barozzino T, Bergeron S, Bloch G, Bonifacio J, Bowry A, Calpin C, Campbell D, 
Cheema S, Cheng E, Chisamore B, Constantin E, Danayan K, Das P, De Guerra V, 
Derocher MB, Do A, Doukas K, Egger A, Farber A, Freedman A, Freeman S, Gazeley 
S, Grewal K, Guiang C, Ha D, Handford C, Hanson L, Harrington L, Jacobson S, 
Jagiello L, Jansz G, Kadar P, Keiswetter L, Kiran T, Knowles H, Kwok B, Lahiry 
P, Lakhoo S, Lam-Antoniades M, Lau E, Leduc D, Leung FH, Li A, Li P, Male R, 
Meret A, Mok E, Moodie R, Nash K, Owen J, Peer M, Perlmutar M, Persaud N, Pinto 
A, Porepa M, Qi V, Ramji N, Raza D, Rouleau K, Ruderman C, Saunderson J, 
Schiralli V, Sgro M, Shuja H, Siam F, Shepherd S, Srikanthan C, Taylor C, 
Treherne S, Turner S, Uddin F, van den Heuvel M, Weisdorf T, Wong P, Yaremko J, 
Ying E, Young E, Zajdman M, Begum EA, Lakhanpal G, Lebovic G, Nnorom IS, Nunez 
MD, Stitt A, Thorpe K, Assan R, Bondar H, Charames G, Djolovic A, Gorscak-Dunn 
C, Hassan M, Kandel R, Rodrigues M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Applied Health Research Centre, Unity Health Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(5)Division of Pediatric Medicine, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(6)Child Health Evaluative Sciences, SickKids Research Institute, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(8)Institute of Health Policy Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(9)Joannah & Brian Lawson Centre for Child Nutrition, Department of Nutritional 
Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(10)Translational Medicine Program, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(11)Department of Pediatrics, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
jonathon.maguire@utoronto.ca.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. jonathon.maguire@utoronto.ca.
(13)Institute of Health Policy Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. jonathon.maguire@utoronto.ca.
(14)Joannah & Brian Lawson Centre for Child Nutrition, Department of Nutritional 
Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
jonathon.maguire@utoronto.ca.
(15)Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, 
Canada. jonathon.maguire@utoronto.ca.

BACKGROUND: The timing of introduction to solid food has been associated with 
eczema and wheezing in childhood. Our aim was to determine whether differences 
persist within the recommended 4 to 6 month age range.
METHODS: A longitudinal cohort study with repeated measures was conducted among 
children from birth to 10 years of age who were participating in the TARGet 
Kids! practice based research network in Toronto, Canada. The primary exposure 
was the timing of introduction to infant cereal as the first solid food. The 
primary outcome was eczema and the secondary outcome was wheezing collected by 
parent report using the validated International Study of Asthma and Allergies in 
Childhood (ISAAC) questionnaire. Multinomial generalized estimating equations 
were used and effect modification by family history of asthma and breastfeeding 
duration were explored.
RESULTS: Of the 7843 children included, the mean (standard deviation) age of 
introduction to infant cereal was 5.7 (1.9) months. There was evidence for 
family history of asthma and breastfeeding duration to be effect modifiers in 
the eczema (P = 0.04) and wheezing (P = 0.05) models. Introduction to infant 
cereal at 4 vs. 6 months of age was associated with higher odds of eczema (OR 
1.62; 95% CI: 1.12, 2.35; P = 0.01) among children without a family history of 
asthma who were not breastfeeding when solid foods were introduced. Introduction 
to infant cereal at 4 vs. 6 months of age was associated with a higher odds of 
wheezing (OR 1.31; 95% CI: 1.13, 1.52; P < .001) among children without a family 
history of asthma who were breastfeeding when solid foods were introduced. There 
was little evidence of an association among the remaining strata for either 
outcome.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study support recommendations to introduce 
solid food around 6 months of age.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12887-023-04262-0
PMCID: PMC10577938
PMID: 37845652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JM has received research funding from the 
Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Physician Services Inc., Ontario SPOR 
Support Unit as well as an unrestricted research grant for a completed 
investigator-initiated study from the Dairy Farmers of Canada (2011–2012) and 
Ddrops provided non-financial support (vitamin D supplements) for an 
investigator initiated study on vitamin D and respiratory tract infections 
(2011–2015). CB has received research funding from the Canadian Institute for 
Health Research, Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, Physician Services Inc, 
The Leong Center at the University of Toronto, Centre for Addictions and Mental 
Health, Ontario Child Health Support Unit (OCHSU) Impact Child Health Award, and 
a Walmart Community Grant through the SickKids Foundation for a study on food 
insecurity in the inpatient hospital setting. CD, CK, and DO have no competing 
interests to disclose.


6. Nutr Res Pract. 2022 Jun;16(3):344-353. doi: 10.4162/nrp.2022.16.3.344. Epub 
2021 Sep 7.

A partially hydrolyzed whey formula provides adequate nutrition in high-risk 
infants for allergy.

Yang J(1)(2), Yang SI(3), Jeong K(4), Kim KW(5), Kim YH(5), Min TK(6), Pyun 
BY(6), Lee J(4)(7), Jung JA(2), Kim JH(8), Lee S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrated Biomedical and Life Science, Graduate School, Korea 
University, Seoul 02841, Korea.
(2)Maeil Innovation Center, Maeil Dairies Co., Ltd., Pyeongtaek 17714, Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym 
University College of Medicine, Anyang 14068, Korea.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon 16499, 
Korea.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul 03722, 
Korea.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Soonchunhyang University Hospital, Seoul 04401, 
Korea.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Yonsei University Wonju College of Medicine, Wonju 
26426, Korea.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, Inha University Hospital, Inha University College 
of Medicine, Incheon 22332, Korea.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Hydrolyzed formula is often fed to infants with 
gastrointestinal or immune issues, such as malabsorption or cow's milk allergy, 
because enzymatic treatment has rendered it more digestible and less allergenic 
than standard cow's milk formula (SF). Partially hydrolyzed formula (PHF) should 
be considered for those infants who are intolerant to extensively hydrolyzed 
formula. However, there are concerns about the nutritional insufficiencies of 
PHF. We aimed to evaluate the effects of PHF on the growth and health indicators 
in infants who were at high-risk of allergic disease and potential candidates 
for consuming PHF.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: A total of 83 infants aged 0-2 mon with a family history of 
allergies were assigned to consume either PHF or SF until 24 weeks of age. 
Anthropometric measures were obtained at baseline, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks; blood 
samples were drawn and evaluated at the end of the study.
RESULTS: No significant differences were observed in weight, height, and 
weight-for-height at any time point in each sex between the PHF and SF groups. 
At 24 weeks of age, the weight-for-age and height-for-age z-scores of the SF 
group were higher than those of the PHF group, but there was no significant 
difference in the weight-for-height z-score. There were no significant 
differences in levels of white blood cells, hemoglobin, ferritin, protein, 
albumin, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, eosinophil 
cationic protein, and immunoglobulin E.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, there were no differences in growth and blood panels 
between the infants consuming PHF or SF. Therefore, infants who are unable to 
tolerate SF can be fed PHF without nutritional concerns about growth.

©2021 The Korean Nutrition Society and the Korean Society of Community 
Nutrition.

DOI: 10.4162/nrp.2022.16.3.344
PMCID: PMC9149326
PMID: 35663446

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare a 
potential conflict of interest with J Yang and JA Jung, employees of the Maeil 
Innovation Center, regarding the research, authorship, and/or publication of 
this article.


7. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2021 Feb 5;2(2):CD013534. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD013534.pub2.

Skin care interventions in infants for preventing eczema and food allergy.

Kelleher MM(1), Cro S(2), Cornelius V(2), Lodrup Carlsen KC(3)(4), Skjerven 
HO(3), Rehbinder EM(4)(5), Lowe AJ(6), Dissanayake E(7), Shimojo N(8), Yonezawa 
K(9), Ohya Y(10), Yamamoto-Hanada K(10), Morita K(11), Axon E(12), Surber 
C(13)(14), Cork M(15), Cooke A(16), Tran L(2), Van Vogt E(2), Schmitt J(17), 
Weidinger S(18), McClanahan D(19), Simpson E(19), Duley L(20), Askie LM(21), 
Chalmers JR(12), Williams HC(12), Boyle RJ(1)(12).

Author information:
(1)National Heart & Lung Institute, Section of Inflammation and Repair, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(2)Imperial Clinical Trials Unit, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(3)Division of Paediatric and Adolescent Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, 
Oslo, Norway.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Allergy and Lung Health Unit, Melbourne School of Population and Global 
Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(8)Center for Preventive Medical Sciences, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan.
(9)Department of Midwifery and Women's Health, Graduate School of Medicine, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(10)Allergy Center, National Center for Child Health and Development, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(11)Department of Pediatrics, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(12)Centre of Evidence Based Dermatology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, 
UK.
(13)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(14)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(15)Sheffield Dermatology Research, Department of Infection, Immunity & 
Cardiovascular Disease, The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(16)Division of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, School of Health Sciences, 
The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(17)Center for Evidence-Based Healthcare, Faculty of Medicine Carl Gustav Carus, 
Technischen Universität (TU) Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(18)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, University Hospital 
Scheswig-Holstein, Kiel, Germany.
(19)Department of Dermatology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA.
(20)Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(21)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, Camperdown, Australia.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2022 Nov 14;11:CD013534. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD013534.pub3.

BACKGROUND: Eczema and food allergy are common health conditions that usually 
begin in early childhood and often occur together in the same people. They can 
be associated with an impaired skin barrier in early infancy. It is unclear 
whether trying to prevent or reverse an impaired skin barrier soon after birth 
is effective in preventing eczema or food allergy.
OBJECTIVES: Primary objective To assess effects of skin care interventions, such 
as emollients, for primary prevention of eczema and food allergy in infants 
Secondary objective To identify features of study populations such as age, 
hereditary risk, and adherence to interventions that are associated with the 
greatest treatment benefit or harm for both eczema and food allergy.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases up to July 2020: Cochrane 
Skin Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and Embase. We searched two trials 
registers and checked reference lists of included studies and relevant 
systematic reviews for further references to relevant randomised controlled 
trials (RCTs). We contacted field experts to identify planned trials and to seek 
information about unpublished or incomplete trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: RCTs of skin care interventions that could potentially 
enhance skin barrier function, reduce dryness, or reduce subclinical 
inflammation in healthy term (> 37 weeks) infants (0 to 12 months) without 
pre-existing diagnosis of eczema, food allergy, or other skin condition were 
included. Comparison was standard care in the locality or no treatment. Types of 
skin care interventions included moisturisers/emollients; bathing products; 
advice regarding reducing soap exposure and bathing frequency; and use of water 
softeners. No minimum follow-up was required.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: This is a prospective individual participant data 
(IPD) meta-analysis. We used standard Cochrane methodological procedures, and 
primary analyses used the IPD dataset. Primary outcomes were cumulative 
incidence of eczema and cumulative incidence of immunoglobulin 
(Ig)E-mediated food allergy by one to three years, both measured by the closest 
available time point to two years. Secondary outcomes included adverse events 
during the intervention period; eczema severity (clinician-assessed); parent 
report of eczema severity; time to onset of eczema; parent report of immediate 
food allergy; and allergic sensitisation to food or inhalant allergen.
MAIN RESULTS: This review identified 33 RCTs, comprising 25,827 participants. A 
total of 17 studies, randomising 5823 participants, reported information on one 
or more outcomes specified in this review. Eleven studies randomising 5217 
participants, with 10 of these studies providing IPD, were included in one or 
more meta-analysis (range 2 to 9 studies per individual meta-analysis). Most 
studies were conducted at children's hospitals. All interventions were compared 
against no skin care intervention or local standard care. Of the 17 studies that 
reported our outcomes, 13 assessed emollients. Twenty-five studies, including 
all those contributing data to meta-analyses, randomised newborns up to age 
three weeks to receive a skin care intervention or standard infant skin care. 
Eight of the 11 studies contributing to meta-analyses recruited infants at high 
risk of developing eczema or food allergy, although definition of high risk 
varied between studies. Durations of intervention and follow-up ranged from 24 
hours to two years. We assessed most of this review's evidence as low certainty 
or had some concerns of risk of bias. A rating of some concerns was most often 
due to lack of blinding of outcome assessors or significant missing data, which 
could have impacted outcome measurement but was judged unlikely to have done 
so. Evidence for the primary food allergy outcome was rated as high risk of bias 
due to inclusion of only one trial where findings varied when different 
assumptions were made about missing data. Skin care interventions during infancy 
probably do not change risk of eczema by one to two years of age (risk ratio 
(RR) 1.03, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.81 to 1.31; moderate-certainty 
evidence; 3075 participants, 7 trials) nor time to onset of eczema (hazard 
ratio 0.86, 95% CI 0.65 to 1.14; moderate-certainty evidence; 3349 participants, 
9 trials). It is unclear whether skin care interventions during infancy change 
risk of IgE-mediated food allergy by one to two years of age (RR 2.53, 95% CI 
0.99 to 6.47; 996 participants, 1 trial) or allergic sensitisation to a food 
allergen at age one to two years (RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.28 to 2.69; 1055 
participants, 2 trials) due to very low-certainty evidence for these outcomes. 
Skin care interventions during infancy may slightly increase risk of parent 
report of immediate reaction to a common food allergen at two years (RR 1.27, 
95% CI 1.00 to 1.61; low-certainty evidence; 1171 participants, 1 trial). 
However, this was only seen for cow's milk, and may be unreliable due to 
significant over-reporting of cow's milk allergy in infants. Skin care 
interventions during infancy probably increase risk of skin infection over the 
intervention period (RR 1.34, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.77; moderate-certainty evidence; 
2728 participants, 6 trials) and may increase risk of infant slippage over the 
intervention period (RR 1.42, 95% CI 0.67 to 2.99; low-certainty evidence; 2538 
participants, 4 trials) or stinging/allergic reactions to moisturisers (RR 2.24, 
95% 0.67 to 7.43; low-certainty evidence; 343 participants, 4 trials), although 
confidence intervals for slippages and stinging/allergic reactions are wide and 
include the possibility of no effect or reduced risk. Preplanned subgroup 
analyses show that effects of interventions were not influenced by age, duration 
of intervention, hereditary risk, FLG mutation,  or classification of 
intervention type for risk of developing eczema. We could not evaluate these 
effects on risk of food allergy. Evidence was insufficient to show whether 
adherence to interventions influenced the relationship between skin care 
interventions and risk of developing eczema or food allergy.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Skin care interventions such as emollients during the 
first year of life in healthy infants are probably not effective for preventing 
eczema, and probably increase risk of skin infection. Effects of skin care 
interventions on risk of food allergy are uncertain. Further work is needed to 
understand whether different approaches to infant skin care might promote or 
prevent eczema and to evaluate effects on food allergy based on robust outcome 
assessments.

Copyright © 2021 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD013534.pub2
PMCID: PMC8094581
PMID: 33545739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MaeveKelleher: I have received honoraria 
(personal payment) for speaking at educational conferences organised by Allergy 
UK, University of Oslo, and Nutricia, which does not manufacture/market any of 
the interventions or potential comparators in this review. Suzie Cro: None 
known. Victoria Cornelius: None known. Emma Axon: None known. Karin C Lodrup 
Carlsen: My institution received money from multiple sources: the Regional 
Health Board South East, the Norwegian Research Council, Oslo University 
Hospital, the University of Oslo, Health and Rehabilitation Norway, Østfold 
Hospital Trust, Norwegian Association of Asthma and Allergy, the Kloster 
Foundation, Norwegian Society of Dermatology and Venereology, Arne 
Ingels' legacy, Fürst Medical Laboratory, the Foundation for Healthcare and 
Allergy Research (in Sweden), the Vårdal Foundation, Swedish Asthma and Allergy 
Association’s Research Foundation, Swedish Research Council, the Initiative for 
Clinical Therapy Research, the Swedish Heart‐Lung Foundation, SFO‐V Karolinska 
Institutet, Hesselman Research Foundation, and Thermo‐Fisher (Uppsala, Sweden). 
My institution received an honorarium and travel expenses from Thermo‐Fisher 
(Uppsala, Sweden) for a lecture at the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical 
Immunology (EAACI) Congress 2018. Håvard Ove Skjerven: My institution received 
money for the PreventADALL study from the two largest governmental grant 
agencies in Norway, The South‐Eastern Norway Regional Health Authority and the 
Norwegian Research Council, which are not commercial sponsors (Lødrup 2018). Eva 
Maria Rehbinder: I declare no real or perceived conflict of interest for the 
present review; however, I have personally received honoraria in the last 36 
months for presentations on atopic dermatitis and psoriasis from Sanofi Genzyme, 
Perrigo, MEDA, Novartis, and Norwegian patient organisations for atopic 
dermatitis and psoriasis. Adrian Lowe: My institution has received National 
Health and Medical Research Council grant and fellowship funding to undertake a 
skin barrier intervention study. I also declare that Primus Pharmaceuticals and 
PuraCap Pharmaceuticals have donated EpiCream (a skin barrier treatment) for use 
in these studies, free of charge. Eishika Dissanayake: None known. Naoki 
Shimojo: My institution has received grants from the Japan Agency for Medical 
Research and Development (AMED‐CREST) (15652274). I have received personal 
payment for the development of educational presentations from AstraZeneca, 
Maruho, Novartis, Torii, and Miyarisan. Funding and payments for educational 
lectures from these pharmaceutical companies do not influence any activities 
related to this review article. Kaori Yonezawa: My institution has received 
grants from the Mitsubishi Foundation (this grant supported the following 
published research: doi: 10.1111/1346‐8138.14080) and the Mishima Kaiun Memorial 
Foundation (which supported the following published research: doi: 
10.1186/s13223‐019‐0385‐7), as well as from Hoyu Science Foundation and JSPS 
KAKENHI Grant Number 17K17676 12288;20H03995. YukihiroOhya: I have received 
honorarium for lectures from AbbVie, Kao, Kyorin Pharmaceutical, Maruho, Mylan, 
Natural science, Sanofi, Taiho Pharma, and Torii pharmaceutical. I received 
payment for consultancy from Maruho for opening a forum and a grant from Yakult. 
All were personal payments. Kiwako Yamamoto‐Hanada: My institution has received 
grants from The Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) KAKENHI, Japan 
Health Foundation, the Environmental Restoration and Conservation Agency (ERCA), 
the National Center for Child Health and development, and the Japanese Society 
of Allergology. I have personally received travel/accommodations/meeting 
expenses unrelated to activities listed from Thermo‐Fisher Scientific. Kumiko 
Morita: Outside this work, I have personally received speakers' honoraria from 
Maruho, Japan, and Astellas Pharma, Japan. Christian Surber: I have personally 
received money for consultancy, lectures, and development of educational 
presentations from LEO Pharma (Switzerland, Germany, & Denmark), for explaining 
galenical concepts including supersaturation; and for lectures and development 
of educational presentations for explaining galenical concepts including nano 
emulsions, from Almirall, Germany. Michael Cork: My institution received a grant 
from Hyphens Pharma for ‘An investigation of the effects of a barrier repair 
cream on the structure and function of the skin (BARRIER)’ (clinical trial). My 
institution received a grant from L'Oreal (La Roche Possay) for ‘An 
investigation of the skin barrier restoring effects of a cream containing 
ceramides in a multi vesicular emulsion in people with dry, eczema‐prone, skin 
(RESTORE)’ (clinical trial). My institution received a grant from Johnson & 
Johnson for ‘A randomised controlled trial of a specially designed wash product 
and lotion for the maintenance of healthy skin and mind in babies (BOND)’. My 
institution and I personally received payment for study design and steering, for 
travel to meetings for study or other purposes, and for participation in review 
activities (such as data monitoring boards, statistical analysis, end point 
committees) from Hyphens Pharma, L'Oreal (La Roche Possay), and Johnson & 
Johnson. I received personal payment for consultancy, 
travel/accommodations/meeting expenses unrelated to activities pre‐mentioned, 
and lectures from Regeneron in collaboration with Sanofi Genzyme with regard to 
biologic drug trials for atopic eczema; Pfizer with regard to biologic and 
topical drug trials for atopic eczema; and Galapagos and Kymab with regard to 
biologic drug trials for atopic eczema. My institution received grants/grants 
pending from Regeneron in collaboration with Sanofi Genzyme with regard to 
biologic drug trials for atopic eczema; Pfizer with regard to biologic and 
topical drug trials for atopic eczema; and Galapagos and Kymab with regard to 
biologic drug trials for atopic eczema. My institution and I personally received 
payment for review preparation from Regeneron in collaboration with Sanofi 
Genzyme with regard to biologic drug trials for atopic eczema; Pfizer with 
regard to biologic and topical drug trials for atopic eczema; and Galapagos and 
Kymab with regard to Biologic drug trials for atopic eczema. My institution 
received payment for development of educational presentations from Regeneron in 
collaboration with Sanofi Genzyme with regard to biologic drug trials for atopic 
eczema. I am or have been an Investigator and Consultant for the following 
organisations: Astellas, Boots, Dermavant, Galapagos, Galderma, Hyphens, Johnson 
& Johnson, Kymab, LEO Pharma, L’Oreal, Menlo, Novartis, Oxagen, Pfizer, Procter 
& Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, Regeneron, and Sanofi Genzyme.  Alison Cooke: I was 
funded by a National Institute for Health Research Doctoral Research Fellowship 
paid to my institution for the OBSeRvE (Oil in Baby Skincare) study (Cooke 
2015). This work was independent research supported by the National Institute 
for Health Research (Doctoral Research Fellowship DRF‐2012‐05‐160). The views 
expressed in any Cochrane publication are those of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the NHS, the National Institute for Health Research or the 
Department of Health. I was an invited expert to an advisory panel on infant 
skin care; my consultancy fee from Johnson and Johnson was paid to my 
institution. I was an invited expert speaker at a neonatal skin care symposium 
at the Royal College of Midwives Annual Conference and at the European Midwives 
Association Conference, for which I received personal payment from Johnson and 
Johnson. Danielle McClanahan: None known. Lien Tran: None known. Lisa M Askie: 
None known. LeliaDuley: None known. Eleanor Van Vogt: None known. Jochen 
Schmitt: I have acted as a consultant for Lilly and Sanofi (personal payment), 
and received institutional grants for investigator‐initiated trials outside the 
submitted work from Novartis, LaRoche, Sanofi, ALK, and Pfizer. Eric Simpson: I 
have received personal payment for the following: board membership (from 
TARGET‐DERM, LEO, and Pfizer); consultancy (from AbbVie, Eli Lilly, and Pfizer); 
travel/accommodations/meeting expenses unrelated to activities listed (from 
Lilly, LEO Pharmaceutical, and Sanofi Genzyme); and review preparation (from 
Regeneron, Dermira, and Sanofi Genzyme). My institution received grants/grants 
pending from Eli Lilly, Incyte, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin. My institution and I 
personally received payment for lectures including service on speakers bureaus 
from Forte Bio Rx, Incyte, and Sanofi Genzyme. For more than 17 years, I have 
been actively involved in epidemiological, clinical and translational research 
centered on atopic dermatitis (AD). My experience leading multi‐centre AD 
clinical trials and directing our clinical research center for over 10 years 
shows my commitment to AD research and specifically disease prevention, clinical 
trial quality, and team science regardless of any previous financial support and 
activities. Stephan Weidinger: My institution received grants from La Roche 
Posay for investigator‐initiated study NCT03376243 and from LEO Pharma for 
investigator‐initiated study 2019‐000598‐22. I received personal payment for 
advisory board membership from Sanofi Genzyme, Regeneron, LEO Pharma, AbbVie, 
Pfizer, Kymab, and Eli Lilly. I received personal payment for lectures from 
Sanofi Genzyme, Regeneron, LEO Pharma, AbbVie, Eli Lilly, and Novartis, as well 
as a personal payment for development of educational presentations from Sanofi 
Genzyme. I am an investigator in a number of clinical trials in atopic 
dermatitis and psoriasis sponsored by a wide range of pharmaceutical companies. 
I have received institutional research grants from Sanofi Genzyme, LEO Pharma, 
and L'Oreal. I have acted as a consultant for Sanofi Genzyme, Regeneron, LEO 
Pharma, Eli Lilly, AbbVie, Pfizer, Kymab, and Novartis. I have lectured at 
educational events sponsored by Sanofi Genzyme, Regeneron, LEO Pharma, AbbVie, 
and Galderma, outside of the submitted work. Joanne R Chalmers: My institution 
received money from NIHR for a research for patient benefit grant to conduct 
this IPD, on which I am a co‐applicant. I am co‐applicant on the BEEP trial and 
the BEEP pilot trial, both of which are included in this review (Chalmers 2020). 
Hywel C Williams: I was director of the NIHR Health Technology Assessment (HTA) 
Programme until 1 October 2020. HTA is part of the NIHR, which also supports the 
NIHR systematic reviews programme from which this work is funded. I am chief 
investigator for the BEEP study (Chalmers 2020), which was funded by NIHR HTA 
and is included in this review. Funds go to my University (Nottingham) from the 
National Institute for Health Research (public funds) as a result of open 
competition. Robert J Boyle: I have received personal payment for participating 
in advisory boards for DBV Technologies and Prota Therapeutics, which develop 
allergy diagnostics or treatments; have received payment for designing a 
clinical trial for Dairy Goat Co‐operative; and have received personal payment 
for providing expert testimony in a class action related to an infant formula 
health claim concerning the development of allergic conditions. Reports an NIHR 
RfPB grant awarded to Nottingham University Hospitals Trust. My employing 
institution, Imperial College London, has a formal research and innovation 
partnership with Nestle. This partnership does not directly involve me, and I do 
not think it is relevant to this review, but Nestle do have skin care products 
and products for prevention or treatment of allergic conditions within their 
portfolio.


8. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2020 Jan;8(1):15-23.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaip.2019.09.017. Epub 2019 Sep 28.

Diagnosis and Management of Patients with the α-Gal Syndrome.

Platts-Mills TAE(1), Li RC(2), Keshavarz B(2), Smith AR(2), Wilson JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy & Clinical Immunology, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, Va. Electronic address: tap2z@virginia.edu.
(2)Division of Allergy & Clinical Immunology, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, Va.

The galactose-α-1,3-galactose (α-Gal) syndrome has many novel features that are 
relevant to diagnosis and management. In most cases, the diagnosis can be made 
on a history of delayed allergic reactions to mammalian meat and the blood test 
for IgE to the oligosaccharide α-Gal. In general, the diagnosis also dictates 
the primary treatment, that is, avoiding mammalian meat and also dairy in some 
cases. In the United States, the lone star tick is the primary cause of this 
disease, but different ticks are responsible in other countries. Blood levels of 
IgE to α-Gal often drop in patients who avoid recurrent tick bites, but the rate 
of decline is variable. Similarly, the delay before reactions is variable and 
the severity of the allergic reactions is not predicted by the delay or the 
titer of specific IgE. Some mammalian-derived products such as heart valves, 
gelatin-based plasma expanders, and pancreatic enzymes are relevant to only 
select patient groups. A minority of cases may benefit from avoiding a wide 
range of products that are prepared with mammalian-derived constituents, such as 
gelatin. This review focuses on the nature of the syndrome, common challenges in 
diagnosis and management, and also gaps in our current knowledge that would 
benefit from additional investigation.

Copyright © 2019 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaip.2019.09.017
PMCID: PMC6980324
PMID: 31568928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: TPM has a patent on an IgE assay to 
α-Gal and has received assay support from Thermo-Fisher/Phadia. JMW has received 
research support from Thermo-Fisher/Phadia. The remaining authors declare that 
they have no conflicts.


9. World J Pediatr Congenit Heart Surg. 2019 Sep;10(5):632-634. doi: 
10.1177/2150135119846047.

A Case of Ewing Sarcoma Presenting With Cardiac Metastasis.

Murad R(1), Bakkar R(1), Sukkar R(1), Mahmoud F(2), Al-Dairy A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Damascus University Cardiac Surgery Hospital, 
Damascus, Syria.
(2)Damascus University Cardiac Surgery Hospital, Damascus, Syria.

Ewing sarcoma is the second most prevalent primary malignant bone tumor. 
Metastases from Ewing sarcoma to the heart are very rare. Herein, we present a 
case of undiagnosed Ewing sarcoma in a 12-year-old boy who presented with 
metastasis to the left atrium. The mass was prolapsing across the mitral valve. 
In view of the potential risk of embolization, urgent cardiac surgery was 
performed before the establishment of a definitive diagnosis. Histopathology was 
consistent with Ewing sarcoma. Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging revealed a 
mass in his left fibula. The patient was referred to the oncology center and 
received chemotherapy. One year later, he is alive with no evidence of recurrent 
cardiac involvement.

DOI: 10.1177/2150135119846047
PMID: 31496409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Am Coll Nutr. 2019 Mar-Apr;38(3):197-208. doi:
10.1080/07315724.2018.1491016.  Epub 2018 Sep 24.

Cow's Milk Consumption and Health: A Health Professional's Guide.

Marangoni F(1), Pellegrino L(2), Verduci E(3), Ghiselli A(4), Bernabei R(5), 
Calvani R(5), Cetin I(6), Giampietro M(7), Perticone F(8), Piretta L(9), Giacco 
R(10), La Vecchia C(11), Brandi ML(12), Ballardini D(13), Banderali G(14), 
Bellentani S(15), Canzone G(16), Cricelli C(17), Faggiano P(18), Ferrara N(19), 
Flachi E(20), Gonnelli S(21), Macca C(22), Magni P(23), Marelli G(24), Marrocco 
W(25), Miniello VL(26), Origo C(27), Pietrantonio F(28), Silvestri P(29), Stella 
R(30), Strazzullo P(31), Troiano E(32), Poli A(1).

Author information:
(1)a NFI-Nutrition Foundation of Italy , Milano , Italy.
(2)b Department of Food, Environmental and Nutritional Sciences , Università 
degli Studi di Milano , Milano , Italy.
(3)c Department of Health Sciences, San Paolo Hospital , ASST Santi Paolo e 
Carlo, Università degli Studi di Milano and SIP-Italian Society of Pediatrics , 
Milano , Italy.
(4)d CREA-Alimenti e Nutrizione, Consiglio per la ricerca in agricoltura e 
l'analisi dell'economia agraria, Roma and SISA-Italian Society of Nutritional 
Science , Roma , Italy.
(5)e Institute of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics- Catholic University of the 
Sacred Heart , Roma , Italy.
(6)f Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences , Unit of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Hospital Vittore Buzzi , Milano , Italy.
(7)g School of Sports , CONI-Italian National Olympic Committee , Roma , Italy.
(8)h Unit of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital Vittore Buzzi , Università 
degli Studi "Magna Graecia", Catanzaro and SIMI-Italian Society of Internal 
Medicine , Catanzaro , Italy.
(9)i Alimentary Science and Human Nutrition, Università Campus Biomedico , Roma 
, Italy.
(10)j Institute of Food Science, National Research Council, Avellino and SID - 
Italian Diabetes Society , Avellino , Italy.
(11)k Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health , Università degli 
Studi di Milano , Milano , Italy.
(12)l Fondazione F.I.R.M.O , Firenze , Italy.
(13)m ANSISA-Italian Association of Food Science Specialists , Milano , Italy.
(14)n Department of Health Sciences, San Paolo Hospital , ASST Santi Paolo e 
Carlo, Università degli Studi di Milano and SINUPE-Italian Society of Pediatric 
Nutrition , Milano , Italy.
(15)o SIGE-Italian Society of Gastroenterology and Digestive Endoscopy , Modena 
, Italy.
(16)p Obstetrics and Gynecology Unit , San Cimino Hospital, Termini Imerese and 
SIGO-Italian Society of Gynecology and Obstetrics , Termini Imerese , Italy.
(17)q SIMG-Italian Society of General Medicine , Firenze , Italy.
(18)r Cardiology Division , Spedali Civili and University of Brescia and 
GICR-Italian Association for Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation , 
Brescia , Italy.
(19)s Department of Translational Medical Sciences , University of Naples 
'Federico II' and SIGG-Italian Society of Gerontology and Geriatrics , Naples , 
Italy.
(20)t SIPREC-Italian Society for Cardiovascular Prevention , Milan , Italy.
(21)u Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience , University of Siena and 
SIOMMS-Italian Society for Osteoporosis, Mineral Metabolism and Bone Diseases , 
Siena , Italy.
(22)v Dietetics and Clinical Nutrition Unit , Spedali Civili Brescia and ADI - 
Italian Association of Dietetics , Brescia , Italy.
(23)w Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences , Università degli 
Studi di Milano and SISA-Italian Society for the Study of Atherosclerosis , 
Milano , Italy.
(24)x Department of Diabetology Endocrinology and Clinical Nutrition , ASST di 
Vimercate and AMD - Italian Association of Diabetologists , Vimercate , Italy.
(25)y FIMMG-Italian Federation of General Medicine Doctors and SIMPeSV-Italian 
Society of Preventive and Lifestyle Medicine , Rome , Italy.
(26)z Department of Paediatrics , University of Bari and SIPPS-Italian Society 
of Preventive and Social Pediatrics , Bari , Italy.
(27)aa Department of Pediatric Orthoaedics , A.O. SS Antonio e Biagio e Cesare 
Arrigo, Alessandria and SITOP-Italian Society of Orthopaedics and Traumatology , 
Alessandria , Italy.
(28)ab Internal Medicine Unit , - H2-Albano Hospital Center, ASL Roma 6, Roma 
and FADOI-Federation of the Associations of Internist Hospital Managers , 
Manerbio , Italy.
(29)ac Interventional Cardiology-CCU Department , G. Rummo Hospital, Benevento 
and ANMCO-Italian National Association of Hospital Cardiologists , Benevento , 
Italy.
(30)ad SNaMID-National Interdisciplinary Medical Society Primary Care , Milan , 
Italy.
(31)ae Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery , ESH Excellence Center of 
Hypertension, "Federico II" University of Naples and SINU-Italian Society of 
Human Nutrition , Napoli , Italy.
(32)af ANDID-Italian Association of Dietitians , Rome , Italy.

The most recent scientific evidence supports the consumption of cow's milk and 
dairy products as part of a balanced diet. However, these days, the public and 
practicing physicans are exposed to a stream of inconsistent (and often 
misleading) information regarding the relationship between cow's milk intake and 
health in the lay press and in the media. The purpose of this article, in this 
context, is to facilitate doctor-patient communication on this topic, providing 
physicians with a series of structured answers to frequently asked patient 
questions. The answers range from milk and milk-derived products' nutritional 
function across the life span, to their relationship with diseases such as 
osteoporosis and cancer, to lactose intolerance and milk allergy, and have been 
prepared by a panel of experts from the Italian medical and nutritional 
scientific community. When consumed according to appropriate national 
guidelines, milk and its derivatives contribute essential micro- and 
macronutrients to the diet, especially in infancy and childhood where bone mass 
growth is in a critical phase. Furthermore, preliminary evidence suggests 
potentially protective effects of milk against overweight, obesity, diabetes, 
and cardiovascular disease, while no clear data suggest a significant 
association between milk intake and cancer. Overall, current scientific 
literature suggests that an appropriate consumption of milk and its derivatives, 
according to available nutritional guidelines, may be beneficial across all age 
groups, with the exception of specific medical conditions such as lactose 
intolerance or milk protein allergy. Key teaching points: Milk and its 
derivatives contribute essential micro and macronutrients to the diet, when 
consumed according to appropriate national guidelines, especially in infancy and 
childhood where bone mass growth is in a critical phase. Preliminary evidence 
suggests potentially protective effects of milk against overweight, obesity, 
diabetes and cardiovascular disease No clear data are available about the 
association between milk intake and cancer. Current scientific literature 
suggests that an appropriate consumption of milk and its derivatives may be 
beneficial at all ages, with the exception of specific medical conditions such 
as lactose intolerance or milk protein allergy.

DOI: 10.1080/07315724.2018.1491016
PMID: 30247998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]