1. Clin Exp Allergy. 2025 Apr;55(4):307-318. doi: 10.1111/cea.70022. Epub 2025
Mar  6.

Diagnosis and Management of Lipid Transfer Protein Allergy-A BSACI Clinical 
Practice Statement.

Marinho S(1)(2), Frleta-Gilchrist M(3), Hunter H(4)(5), Murgasova D(6), Patel 
N(7), Till S(4)(5), Skypala IJ(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Allergy Centre, Wythenshawe Hospital, Manchester University NHS Foundation 
Trust, Manchester, UK.
(2)The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(3)Department of Immunology, Queen Elizabeth University Hospital, Glasgow, UK.
(4)Department of Allergy, Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(5)Kings College, London, UK.
(6)Department of Paediatric Allergy, St George's University Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(7)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(8)Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Royal Brompton and Harefield 
Hospitals, Part of Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(9)Department of Inflammation and Repair, National Heart and Lung Institute, 
Imperial College, London, UK.

Although the most prevalent plant food allergy in the United Kingdom (UK) is 
pollen food syndrome (PFS), there is increasing evidence that reactions to plant 
foods could also be due to sensitisation to Lipid Transfer Proteins (LTP). These 
proteins, highly resistant to heat and processing, are present in raw, cooked 
and processed plant foods and often provoke moderate to severe symptoms. LTP 
allergy is common in Mediterranean countries, but there is a lack of 
epidemiological data from Northern Europe, although small case series have been 
published characterising LTP allergy in both England and Scotland. To gather 
further information and aid the development of a clinical practice statement on 
LTP allergy, a survey was conducted by the British Society of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology (BSACI). The results confirmed that LTP allergy is being 
diagnosed in both children and adults in all areas of the UK. The survey 
results, along with published UK data, confirm that tree nuts, peanuts, apples, 
stone fruits, tomatoes and processed foods, such as pizza or curry, are common 
food triggers. Anaphylactic reactions are not uncommon and are often facilitated 
by the presence of co-factors such as exercise or alcohol. Unlike LTP allergy in 
Spain and Italy, UK individuals are also more likely to be sensitised to birch 
and grass pollen, but this does not appear to reduce the severity of the 
condition. Diagnosis can be complex; a positive test to individual LTP allergens 
can only be confirmatory of a diagnosis of LTP allergy when accompanied by a 
typical clinical history. Management can be difficult, and individualised advice 
is vital to avoid the exclusion of multiple foods and minimise the likelihood of 
co-factors. Given the diverse range of foods, co-factor involvement and highly 
idiosyncratic nature of LTP allergy, the need for adrenaline autoinjectors 
should always be considered.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cea.70022
PMID: 40051200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Adv Nutr. 2022 Dec 22;13(6):2136-2148. doi: 10.1093/advances/nmac077.

Consumption of Nuts and Seeds and Health Outcomes Including Cardiovascular 
Disease, Diabetes and Metabolic Disease, Cancer, and Mortality: An Umbrella 
Review.

Balakrishna R(1), Bjørnerud T(1), Bemanian M(1)(2), Aune D(3)(4)(5)(6), Fadnes 
LT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(2)Department of Addiction Medicine, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, 
Norway.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Nutrition, Oslo New University College, Oslo, Norway.
(5)Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and Preventive Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Unit of Cardiovascular and Nutritional Epidemiology, Institute of 
Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Consumption of nuts and seeds is associated with a range of health outcomes. 
Summarizing the best evidence on essential health outcomes from the consumption 
of nuts is essential to provide optimal recommendations. Our objective is to 
comprehensively assess health outcome associations related to the consumption of 
nuts and seeds, using a culinary definition including tree nuts and peanuts 
(registered in PROSPERO: CRD42021258300). Health outcomes of interest include 
cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, obesity, respiratory disease, 
mortality, and their disease biomarkers. We present associations for high 
compared with low consumption, per serving, and dose-response relations. 
MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane, and Epistemonikos were searched and screened for 
systematic reviews and meta-analyses. Evidence was extracted from 89 articles on 
the consumption of nuts and relevant health outcomes, including 23 articles with 
meta-analysis on disease and mortality, 66 articles on biomarkers for disease, 
and 9 articles on allergy/adverse outcomes. Intake of nuts was associated with 
reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases and related risk factors, with moderate 
quality of evidence. An intake of 28 g/d nuts compared with not eating nuts was 
associated with a 21% RR reduction of cardiovascular disease (including coronary 
heart disease incidence and mortality, atrial fibrillation, and stroke 
mortality), an 11% risk reduction of cancer deaths, and 22% reduction in 
all-cause mortality. Nut consumption was also inversely associated with 
mortality from respiratory diseases, infectious diseases, and diabetes; however, 
associations between nut consumption and diabetes incidence were mixed. 
Meta-analyses of trials on biomarkers for disease generally mirrored 
meta-analyses from observational studies on cardiovascular disease, cancers, and 
diabetes. Allergy and related adverse reactions to nuts were observed in 1-2% of 
adult populations, with substantial heterogeneity between studies. Overall, the 
current evidence supports dietary recommendations to consume a handful of nuts 
and seeds per day for people without allergies to these foods.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1093/advances/nmac077
PMCID: PMC9776667
PMID: 36041171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Allergy. 2022 Jun;77(6):1736-1750. doi: 10.1111/all.15167. Epub 2021 Nov 24.

Proposal of 0.5 mg of protein/100 g of processed food as threshold for voluntary 
declaration of food allergen traces in processed food-A first step in an 
initiative to better inform patients and avoid fatal allergic reactions: A 
GA²LEN position paper.

Zuberbier T(1), Dörr T(1), Aberer W(2), Alvaro M(3), Angier E(4), Arasi S(5), 
Arshad H(6)(7)(8), Ballmer-Weber B(9)(10), Bartra J(11)(12), Beck L(13), Bégin 
P(14), Bindslev-Jensen C(15), Bislimovska J(16), Bousquet J(1)(17)(18), Brockow 
K(19), Bush A(20), Cianferoni A(21), Cork MJ(22), Custovic A(23), Darsow U(19), 
de Jong N(24), Deleanu D(25), Del Giacco S(26), Deschildre A(27)(28), Dunn 
Galvin A(29)(30)(31), Ebisawa M(32), Fernández-Rivas M(33), Ferrer M(34), 
Fiocchi A(5), Gerth van Wijk R(24), Gotua M(35), Grimshaw K(36), Grünhagen J(1), 
Heffler E(37)(38), Hide M(39), Hoffmann-Sommergruber K(40), Incorvaia C(41), 
Janson C(42), Malte John S(43)(44), Jones C(45), Jutel M(46)(47), Katoh N(48), 
Kendziora B(49), Kinaciyan T(50), Knol E(51)(52), Kurbacheva O(53), Lau S(54), 
Loh R(55), Lombardi C(56), Mäkelä M(57), Marchisotto MJ(58)(59), Makris M(60), 
Maurer M(1), Meyer R(61), Mijakoski D(16), Minov J(16), Mullol J(62), Nilsson 
C(63)(64), Nowak-Wegrzyn A(65), Nwaru BI(66), Odemyr M(67), Pajno GB(68), Paudel 
S(69), Papadopoulos NG(70), Renz H(71)(72), Ricci G(73), Ring J(19)(74), Rogala 
B(75), Sampson H(76)(77)(78), Senna G(79), Sitkauskiene B(80), Smith PK(81), 
Stevanovic K(1), Stoleski S(16), Szajewska H(82), Tanaka A(83), Todo-Bom A(84), 
Topal FA(1), Valovirta E(85), Van Ree R(86), Venter C(87), Wöhrl S(88), Wong 
GWK(89), Zhao Z(90), Worm M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Humboldt-Uniersität zu Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, Comprehensive 
Allergy-Centre, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(3)Servei Al-lergologia Immunologia Clinica, Hospital Sant Joan de Deu, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Primary Care, Population Science and Medical Education, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(5)Pediatric Allergology Unit, Bambino Gesù Hospital (IRCCS), Rome, Italy.
(6)NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital Southampton 
NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK.
(7)Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(8)The David Hide Asthma and Allergy Research Centre, St Mary's Hospital, Isle 
of Wight, UK.
(9)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(10)Clinic for Dermatology and Allergology, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, St. 
Gallen, Switzerland.
(11)Unitat d'Al.lergia, Servei de Neumologia i Al.lergia Respiratoria, Hospital 
Clinic, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(13)Department of Dermatology, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester, New York, USA.
(14)CHU Sainte-Justine, Montréal, Canada.
(15)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Center, Odense Research Centre for 
Anaphylaxis (ORCA), Odense University Hospital Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(16)Faculty of Medicine, Ss. Cyril and Methodius, University in Skopje, 
Institute of Occupational Health of RNM, WHO Collaborating Center, Skopje, 
Macedonia.
(17)University Hospital Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(18)MACVIA-France, Montpellier, France.
(19)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Biederstein, School of Medicine, 
Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(20)Imperial College and Royal Brompton Hospital, London, UK.
(21)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania, The Children's 
Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(22)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(23)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(24)Section of Allergology and Clinical Immunology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(25)University Medicine and Pharmacy Iuliu Hatieganu, IRGH, Allergy, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(26)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy.
(27)CHU Lille, Univ Lille, Lille, France.
(28)Pediatric Pulmonology and Allergy Unit, Hôpital Jeanne de Flandre, Lille, 
France.
(29)University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(30)Sechenov University Moscow, Moscow, Russia.
(31)Anaphylaxis Ireland, Cork, Ireland.
(32)Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, National Hospital 
Organization Sagamihara National Hospital, Sagamihara, Japan.
(33)Allergy Department, Facultad de Medicina, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, 
Universidad Complutense (UCM), IdISSC, Madrid, Spain.
(34)Department of Allergy, Clinica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(35)Center of Allergy and Immunology, Tbilisi, Georgia.
(36)Dietetic Department, Salford Care Organisation, Salford Royal Foundation 
Trust, Salford, UK.
(37)Personalized Medicine, Asthma and Allergy, IRCCS Humanitas Research 
Hospital, Rozzano (MI), Italy.
(38)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Pieve Emanuele 
(MI), Italy.
(39)Department of Dermatology, Hiroshima Citizens Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan.
(40)Department of Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Medical University of 
Vienna, Austria.
(41)Cardiac/Pulmonary Rehabilitation, ASST Pini/CTO, Milan, Italy.
(42)Department of Medical Sciences: Respiratory, Allergy and Sleep Research, 
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(43)Department of Dermatology, Environmental Medicine, Health Theory, University 
of Osnabrueck, Osnabrueck, Germany.
(44)Institute for Interdisciplinary Dermatological Prevention and Rehabilitation 
(iDerm) at the University of Osnabrueck, Osnabrueck, Germany.
(45)Allergy, Kent, UK.
(46)Department of Clinical Immunology, Wrocław Medical University, Poland.
(47)All-MED Medical Research Institute, Wrocław, Poland.
(48)Department of Dermatology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, 
Japan.
(49)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(50)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(51)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(52)Laboratory of Translational Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(53)NRC Institute of Immunology FMBA, Moscow, Russia.
(54)Pediatric Respiratory Medicine, Immunology and Critical Care Medicine, 
Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(55)Department of Immunology, Perth Children's Hospital, University of Western 
Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(56)Unità Dipartimentale di Allergologia-Immunologia Clinica & Malattie Apparato 
Respiratorio, Ente Ospedaliero Fondazione Poliambulanza, Brescia, Italy.
(57)Skin and Allergy Hospital, Helsinki University Hospital and University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(58)MJM Advisory, New York, New York, USA.
(59)Mary H. Weiser Food Allergy Center, University of Michigan Medicine, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(60)Allergy Unit, 2nd Dpt of Dermatology and Venereology, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Attikon University Hospital, Athens, Greece.
(61)Department of Paediatrics, Imperial College, London, UK.
(62)Rhinology Unit & Smell Clinic, ENT Department, Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS, 
Universitat de Barcelona, CIBERES, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(63)Sachs' Children and Youth Hospital, Södersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden.
(64)Department of Clinical Science and Education Södersjukhuset, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(65)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Department of Pediatrics, Jaffe Food 
Allergy Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Kravis Children's 
Hospital, New York, New York, USA.
(66)Krefting Research Centre, Institute of Medicine, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(67)Asthma and Allergy Association, Stockholm, Sweden.
(68)Pediatric unit, Policlinico Hospitsl, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(69)Civil Service Hospital, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(70)Allergy Dpt, 2nd Pediatric Clinic, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(71)Institute of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiochemistry, Molecular 
Diagnostics, Philipps University Marburg University Hospital Giessen and 
Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(72)Department of Clinical Immunology and Allergology, Laboratory of 
Immunopathology, Sechenov University, Moscow, Russia.
(73)Pediatric Unit, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(74)Christine Kühne Center for Allergy Research and Education (CK-Care), Davos, 
Switzerland.
(75)Department of Internal Diseases, Allergology & Clinical Immunology Medical, 
University of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.
(76)Elliot and Roslyn Jaffe Food Allergy Institute, New York, New York, USA.
(77)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Kravis Children's Hospital, New York, 
New York, USA.
(78)Department of Pediatrics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(79)Asthma Center and Allergy Unit, Verona University and General Hospital, 
Verona, Italy.
(80)Department of Immunology and Allergology, Lithuanian University of Health 
Sciences, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(81)Griffith University, Southport, Qld, Australia.
(82)Department of Paediatrics, The Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(83)Department of Dermatology, Graduate School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(84)Allergy and Clinical Immunology Unit, Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(85)Department of Lung Diseases and Clinical Allergology, University of Turku, 
and Terveystalo Turku, Allergy Clinic, Turku, Finland.
(86)Departments of Experimental Immunology and Otorhinolaryngology, Academic 
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(87)University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine and Children's Hospital 
Colorado, Aurora, Colorado, USA.
(88)Floridsdorf Allergy Center (FAZ), Vienna, Austria.
(89)Department of Paediatrics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong.
(90)Department of Dermatology, First Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Food anaphylaxis is commonly elicited by unintentional ingestion of 
foods containing the allergen above the tolerance threshold level of the 
individual. While labeling the 14 main allergens used as ingredients in food 
products is mandatory in the EU, there is no legal definition of declaring 
potential contaminants. Precautionary allergen labeling such as "may contain 
traces of" is often used. However, this is unsatisfactory for consumers as they 
get no information if the contamination is below their personal threshold. In 
discussions with the food industry and technologists, it was suggested to use a 
voluntary declaration indicating that all declared contaminants are below a 
threshold of 0.5 mg protein per 100 g of food. This concentration is known to be 
below the threshold of most patients, and it can be technically guaranteed in 
most food production. However, it was also important to assess that in case of 
accidental ingestion of contaminants below this threshold by highly allergic 
patients, no fatal anaphylactic reaction could occur. Therefore, we performed a 
systematic review to assess whether a fatal reaction to 5mg of protein or less 
has been reported, assuming that a maximum portion size of 1kg of a processed 
food exceeds any meal and thus gives a sufficient safety margin.
METHODS: MEDLINE and EMBASE were searched until 24 January 2021 for provocation 
studies and case reports in which one of the 14 major food allergens was 
reported to elicit fatal or life-threatening anaphylactic reactions and assessed 
if these occurred below the ingestion of 5mg of protein. A Delphi process was 
performed to obtain an expert consensus on the results.
RESULTS: In the 210 studies included, in our search, no reports of fatal 
anaphylactic reactions reported below 5 mg protein ingested were identified. 
However, in provocation studies and case reports, severe reactions below 5 mg 
were reported for the following allergens: eggs, fish, lupin, milk, nuts, 
peanuts, soy, and sesame seeds.
CONCLUSION: Based on the literature studied for this review, it can be stated 
that cross-contamination of the 14 major food allergens below 0.5 mg/100 g is 
likely not to endanger most food allergic patients when a standard portion of 
food is consumed. We propose to use the statement "this product contains the 
named allergens in the list of ingredients, it may contain traces of other 
contaminations (to be named, e.g. nut) at concentrations less than 0.5 mg per 
100 g of this product" for a voluntary declaration on processed food packages. 
This level of avoidance of cross-contaminations can be achieved technically for 
most processed foods, and the statement would be a clear and helpful message to 
the consumers. However, it is clearly acknowledged that a voluntary declaration 
is only a first step to a legally binding solution. For this, further research 
on threshold levels is encouraged.

© 2021 The Authors. Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.15167
PMID: 34741557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Front Immunol. 2021 Sep 28;12:636612. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.636612. 
eCollection 2021.

Oral Immunotherapy for Food-Allergic Children: A Pro-Con Debate.

Mori F(1), Giovannini M(1), Barni S(1), Jiménez-Saiz R(2)(3)(4)(5), Munblit 
D(6)(7)(8), Biagioni B(9), Liccioli G(1), Sarti L(1), Liotti L(10), Ricci S(11), 
Novembre E(1), Sahiner U(12), Baldo E(13), Caimmi D(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Allergy Unit, Department of Pediatrics, Meyer Children's University Hospital, 
Florence, Italy.
(2)Department of Immunology, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Hospital 
Universitario de La Princesa (IIS-IP), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Immunology & Oncology, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología 
(CNB)-CSIC, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Faculty of Experimental Sciences, Universidad Francisco de Vitoria (UFV), 
Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(6)Department of Paediatrics and Paediatric Infectious Diseases, Institute of 
Child's Health, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University (Sechenov 
University), Moscow, Russia.
(7)Inflammation, Repair and Development Section, National Heart and Lung 
Institute, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(8)Research and Clinical Center for Neuropsychiatry, Moscow, Russia.
(9)Allergy Outpatient Clinic, Division of Internal Medicine, IRCCS Azienda 
Ospedaliera Universitaria, Bologna, Italy.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, Salesi Children's Hospital, Azienda Ospedaliera 
Universitaria (AOU) Ospedali Riuniti Ancona, Ancona, Italy.
(11)Division of Immunology, Section of Pediatrics, Department of Health 
Sciences, University of Florence and Meyer Children's Hospital, Florence, Italy.
(12)Department of Pediatric Allergy, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.
(13)"Giovan Battista Mattei" Research Institute, Stenico, Italy.
(14)Allergy Unit, CHU de Montpellier, Univ Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(15)IDESP, UA11, INSERM-Univ Montpellier, Montpellier, France.

The prevalence of food allergy has increased in recent years, especially in 
children. Allergen avoidance, and drugs in case of an allergic reaction, remains 
the standard of care in food allergy. Nevertheless, increasing attention has 
been given to the possibility to treat food allergy, through immunotherapy, 
particularly oral immunotherapy (OIT). Several OIT protocols and clinical trials 
have been published. Most of them focus on children allergic to milk, egg, or 
peanut, although recent studies developed protocols for other foods, such as 
wheat and different nuts. OIT efficacy in randomized controlled trials is 
usually evaluated as the possibility for patients to achieve desensitization 
through the consumption of an increasing amount of a food allergen, while the 
issue of a possible long-term sustained unresponsiveness has not been completely 
addressed. Here, we evaluated current pediatric OIT knowledge, focusing on the 
results of clinical trials and current guidelines. Specifically, we wanted to 
highlight what is known in terms of OIT efficacy and effectiveness, safety, and 
impact on quality of life. For each aspect, we reported the pros and the cons, 
inferable from published literature. In conclusion, even though many protocols, 
reviews and meta-analysis have been published on this topic, pediatric OIT 
remains a controversial therapy and no definitive generalized conclusion may be 
drawn so far. It should be an option provided by specialized teams, when both 
patients and their families are prone to adhere to the proposed protocol. 
Efficacy, long-term effectiveness, possible role of adjuvant therapies, risk of 
severe reactions including anaphylaxis or eosinophilic esophagitis, and impact 
on the quality of life of both children and caregivers are all aspects that 
should be discussed before starting OIT. Future studies are needed to provide 
firm clinical and scientific evidence, which should also consider patient 
reported outcomes.

Copyright © 2021 Mori, Giovannini, Barni, Jiménez-Saiz, Munblit, Biagioni, 
Liccioli, Sarti, Liotti, Ricci, Novembre, Sahiner, Baldo and Caimmi.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.636612
PMCID: PMC8507468
PMID: 34650547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


5. Allergy. 2021 May;76(5):1463-1472. doi: 10.1111/all.14613. Epub 2020 Oct 21.

Identification of Pru du 6 as a potential marker allergen for almond allergy.

Kabasser S(1), Hafner C(2)(3), Chinthrajah S(4), Sindher SB(4), Kumar D(4), Kost 
LE(4), Long AJ(4), Nadeau KC(4)(5)(6), Breiteneder H(1), Bublin M(1).

Author information:
(1)Center of Pathophysiology, Infectiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.
(2)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital St. Poelten, Karl Landsteiner 
University of Health Sciences, St. Poelten, Austria.
(3)Karl Landsteiner Institute for Dermatological Research, St. Poelten, Austria.
(4)Sean N. Parker Center for Allergy and Asthma Research, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Oral food challenges have demonstrated that diagnosis of almond 
allergy based on extract-sIgE tests displays low specificity. Molecular allergy 
diagnosis is expected to improve accuracy, but its value in diagnosing almond 
allergy remains unknown. The aim of this study was to identify relevant almond 
allergens and examine their ability to improve almond allergy diagnosis.
METHODS: IgE-reactive proteins were purified from almond kernels. IgE binding to 
almond extract and the allergens was analyzed by quantitative ELISA using sera 
from 18 subjects with a proven almond allergy. The control group consisted of 
sera from 18 subjects allergic to peanut and/or tree nuts but tolerant to 
almond.
RESULTS: Three IgE-binding proteins were identified: legumin (Pru du 6), 
alpha-hairpinin (Pru du 8), and mandelonitrile lyase (Pru du 10). Positive IgE 
(≥0.35 kU/L) to almond extract showed 94% sensitivity but only 33% specificity. 
IgE to Pru du 6 maintained high sensitivity (83%) and provided superior 
specificity (78%). Sera from almond-allergic subjects had significantly higher 
IgE levels to almond extract (P < .0001) and Pru du 6 (P < .0001) than sera from 
tolerant donors. Sensitization to Pru du 6 was highly specific for almond 
allergy, while frequencies of sensitization to legumins from peanut, walnut, 
hazelnut, and cashew were similar in both groups. IgE to Pru du 8 and Pru du 10 
was less sensitive (41% and 67%), but showed specificities of 100% and 61%.
CONCLUSION: The use of almond allergens markedly increases the diagnostic 
specificity compared to the extract. Pru du 6 is a potential new molecular 
marker for almond allergy.

© 2020 The Authors. Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.14613
PMCID: PMC8247360
PMID: 33020913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Chinthrajah reports grants from NIAID, 
CoFAR, Aimmune, DBV Technologies, Astellas, Regeneron, an Advisory member for 
Alladapt, Genentech, Novartis, and receives personal fees from Before Brands 
outside the submitted work. Dr. Nadeau reports grants from National Institute of 
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), grants from National Heart, Lung, and 
Blood Institute (NHLBI), grants from National Institute of Environmental Health 
Sciences (NIEHS), grants from Food Allergy Research & Education (FARE), other 
from World Allergy Organization (WAO), other from Cour Pharma, other from Before 
Brands, other from Alladapt, other from Latitude, other from IgGenix, other from 
Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), other from National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
clinical research centers, outside the submitted work; In addition, Dr. Nadeau 
has a patent Inhibition of Allergic Reaction to Peanut Allergen using an IL‐33 
Inhibitor pending, a patent Special Oral Formula for Decreasing Food Allergy 
Risk and Treatment for Food Allergy pending, a patent Basophil Activation Based 
Diagnostic Allergy Test pending, a patent Granulocyte‐based methods for 
detecting and monitoring immune system disorders pending, a patent Methods and 
Assays for Detecting and Quantifying Pure Subpopulations of White Blood Cells in 
Immune System Disorders pending, a patent Mixed Allergen Compositions and 
Methods for Using the Same pending, and a patent Microfluidic Device and 
Diagnostic Methods for Allergy Testing Based on Detection of Basophil Activation 
pending. The rest of the authors declare that they have no relevant conflict of 
interest related to this study.


6. Nutrients. 2019 Dec 3;11(12):2941. doi: 10.3390/nu11122941.

The Secrets of the Mediterranean Diet. Does [Only] Olive Oil Matter?

Mazzocchi A(1)(2), Leone L(1)(2), Agostoni C(1)(2)(3), Pali-Schöll I(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, 
20126 Milan, Italy.
(2)SIGENP (Italian Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and 
Nutrition), via Libero Temolo 4 (Torre U8), 20126 Milan, Italy.
(3)Pediatric Intermediate Care Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale 
Maggiore Policlinico, 20126 Milan, Italy.
(4)Center for Pathophysiology, Infectiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Medical University of Vienna, 1090 Vienna, 
Austria.
(5)Comparative Medicine, The interuniversity Messerli Research Institute, 
University of Veterinary Medicine, Medical University and University Vienna, 
1090 Vienna, Austria.

Diet plays a key role in the maintenance and optimal functioning of immune 
cells. The Mediterranean dietary pattern is an example of a prudent choice of 
lifestyle and scientifically accepted to help preserve human health by 
protecting against major chronic and inflammatory diseases. Mediterranean diets 
(MedDiets) are characteristically high in the consumption of fruits, vegetables 
and salad, bread and whole grain cereals, potatoes, legumes/beans, nuts, and 
seeds. Their common central feature is the usage of olive oil as the main source 
of fat. The health benefits attributed to olive oil are specifically related to 
extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) intake with its high nutritional quality and 
multiple positive effects on health. Overall, MedDiets have direct 
(mono-unsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs), tocopherols, polyphenols) and indirect 
(low saturated fats, well-balanced linoleic/alpha linolenic acid) effects on the 
immune system and inflammatory responses. In the present paper, we summarize the 
current knowledge on the effect of olive oil per se and MedDiets generally on 
immune-mediated and inflammatory diseases, such as coronary heart disease 
(CHD)/cardiovascular diseases (CVD), obesity, type-2 diabetes, cancer, asthma, 
and allergies.

DOI: 10.3390/nu11122941
PMCID: PMC6949890
PMID: 31817038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


7. J Korean Med Sci. 2019 Apr 8;34(13):e106. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2019.34.e106.

Infantile Anaphylaxis in Korea: a Multicenter Retrospective Case Study.

Jeon YH(1), Lee S(2), Ahn K(3), Lee SY(4), Kim KW(5), Kim HH(6), Kim JH(7), Yum 
HY(8), Kim WK(9), Park YM(10), Song TW(9), Kim J(3), Lee YJ(1), Jang GC(11), 
Jeong K(12), Kim YH(5), Min TK(13), Pyun BY(14); Food Allergy and Atopic 
Dermatitis (FAAD) Study Group in the Korean Academy of Pediatric Allergy and 
Respiratory Disease.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart Hospital, 
Hallym University College of Medicine, Hwaseong, Korea.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Ajou University Hospital, Ajou University School of 
Medicine, Suwon, Korea. jsjs87@ajou.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Childhood Asthma Atopy Center, Environmental Health 
Center, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Severance Hospital, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, 
The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Inha University Hospital, Inha University College 
of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, Seoul Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Department of Pediatrics, Inje University Ilsan Paik Hospital, Inje 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, Konkuk University Medical Center, Konkuk 
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(11)Department of Pediatrics, National Health Insurance Corporation Ilsan 
Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, Ajou University Hospital, Ajou University School 
of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(13)Department of Pediatrics, Soonchunhyang University Seoul Hospital, Seoul, 
Korea.
(14)Department of Pediatrics, Soonchunhyang University Seoul Hospital, Seoul, 
Korea. bypyun@schmc.ac.kr.

Comment in
    J Korean Med Sci. 2019 Apr 08;34(13):e109. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2019.34.e109.

BACKGROUND: Anaphylaxis is increasing in young children. The aim of the present 
study was to analyze the clinical characteristics of anaphylaxis in Korean 
infants, with a focus on food triggers.
METHODS: The study analyzed the medical records of infants aged 0 to 2 years old 
who had been diagnosed with anaphylaxis in 23 secondary or tertiary hospitals in 
Korea.
RESULTS: We identified 363 cases of infantile anaphylaxis (66.9% male). 
Cutaneous symptoms were most prevalent (98.6%), followed by respiratory (83.2%), 
gastrointestinal (29.8%), and neurologic (11.6%) symptoms. Cardiovascular 
symptoms were noted in 7.7% of the cases. Most of the cases of anaphylaxis (338; 
93.1%) were induced by foods. The most common trigger food was cow's milk and 
cow's milk products (43.8%), followed by hen's eggs (21.9%), walnuts (8.3%), 
wheat (7.7%), peanuts (4.8%), other nuts (3.0%), and fish (2.1%). In cow's 
milk-induced anaphylaxis cases, more than half the cases had cow's milk specific 
immunoglobulin E (sIgE) levels that were lower than the diagnostic decision 
points (DDPs), which is 5 kUA/L for those under the age of 1 and 15 kUA/L for 
those over the age of 1. In anaphylaxis induced by hen's egg, most of the cases 
(91.8%) had hen's egg sIgE levels that were higher than the DDP, which is 2 
kUA/L for those under the age of 2 and 7 kUA/L for those over the age of 2. Of 
the infantile anaphylaxis cases, 46.8% had been treated with epinephrine, and 
25.1% had been prescribed an epinephrine auto-injector.
CONCLUSION: Cow's milk is the most frequent trigger food of anaphylaxis in 
Korean infants. However, we found no significant correlation between the sIgE 
level and clinical severity. Education is required regarding the importance of 
epinephrine as the first line therapy for anaphylaxis and on properly 
prescribing epinephrine for infants with a history of anaphylaxis.

© 2019 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2019.34.e106
PMCID: PMC6449600
PMID: 30950251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


8. Wiad Lek. 2019;72(1):137-141.

[Kounis syndrome - allergic myocardial infarction. a case report].

[Article in Polish]

Wajtryt O(1), Zielonka TM(2), Kaszyńska A(1), Falkowski A(2), Życińska K(2).

Author information:
(1)Klinika Chorób Wewnętrznych i Metabolicznych, Szpital Czerniakowski w 
Warszawie, Warszawa, Polska.
(2)Klinika Chorób Wewnętrznych i Metabolicznych, Szpital Czerniakowski w 
Warszawie, Warszawa, Polska, Katedra i Zakład Medycyny Rodzinnej, Warszawski 
Uniwersytet Medyczny, Warszawa, Polska.

Kounis syndrome or allergic myocardial infarction is an acute coronary syndrome 
in the course of an allergic reaction. In allergic patients in response to a 
specific condition - nourishment, inhalation, environmental substances, drug or 
insect bite there is an allergic reaction involving many different cells and 
mediators that can cause coronary artery spasm or initiate the process of 
rupture and activation of atherosclerotic plaque resulting in acute coronary 
syndrome. The paper describes a case of a young man with allergy to pollen and 
confirmed sensitization to nuts, who developed a full-blown anaphylactic shock 
after eating the nut mix and experienced a rapidly passing acute coronary 
syndrome with troponin up to 4.7 μg/L. An increased concentration of tryptase 
(15 μg/L), total IgE (> 3,000 IU/mL) and specific anti-nut IgE (55.1 kUA/L) were 
found. Based on the course of the disease and the results of allergic and 
cardiac tests, allergic type 1 myocardial infarction, i.e. caused by coronary 
artery spasm, was diagnosed. During the hospitalization, the patient's condition 
improved quickly and after a few days he left the hospital without the signs of 
permanent damage to the heart muscle.

PMID: 30796879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 2020 Oct;90(5-6):564-574. doi:
10.1024/0300-9831/a000529.  Epub 2019 Feb 12.

Physicochemical properties and health benefits of pistachio nuts.

Esmaeili Nadimi A(1)(2), Ahmadi Z(3), Falahati-Pour SK(4), Mohamadi M(4), Nazari 
A(1)(5), Hassanshahi G(6)(7), Ekramzadeh M(8).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Rafsanjan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(2)Dep. of Cardiology, Medical School, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, 
Rafsanjan, Iran.
(3)Occupational Environment Research Center, Rafsanjan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(4)Pistachio Safety Research Center, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, 
Rafsanjan, Iran.
(5)Dept. of Surgery, School of Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical 
Science, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(6)Molecular Medicine Research Center, Research Institute of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(7)Dept. of Immunology, Medical School, Rafsanjan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(8)Nutrition Research Center, Department of Clinical Nutrition, School of 
Nutritoin and Food Sciences, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.

The genus of Pistacia plant systematically fits into the family of 
Anacardiaceae. Pistachios contain protein, carbohydrate, dietary fibers, fat, 
folic acid, vitamin K, magnesium and potassium, gama-tocopherols, 
phytochemicals, and polyphenols. Collectively, these constituents have been 
shown to possess antioxidant and anti-inflammatory functions to improve overall 
health when consumed as a healthy diet. We searched the following keywords 
within the literature databases: pistachio, heart disorders, lipids, weight, 
antioxidants, and allergy. Further searching theses keywords, we have found 50 
articles in PubMed, 40 articles in ISI web of knowledge and 30 articles in 
Google Scholar. We have selected 100 articles, among them 80 articles were used 
as the references of this review. In the current article, we have discussed the 
most recent data published regarding the regulatory effects of pistachios on 
several clinical states such as heart related disorders, hyperlipidemia, 
hypertension, vascular stiffness and endothelial and gut functions, weight 
management, glucose metabolism, kidney function and finally allergies.

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831/a000529
PMID: 30747609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nutrients. 2010 Jul;2(7):652-682. doi: 10.3390/nu2070652. Epub 2010 Jun 24.

Health benefits of nut consumption.

Ros E(1).

Author information:
(1)Lipid Clinic, Endocrinology and Nutrition Service, Institutd'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pii Sunyer, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona and Ciber 
Fisiopatología de la Obesidady Nutrición (CIBERobn), Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III (ISCIII), Spain.

Nuts (tree nuts and peanuts) are nutrient dense foods with complex matrices rich 
in unsaturated fatty and other bioactive compounds: high-quality vegetable 
protein, fiber, minerals, tocopherols, phytosterols, and phenolic compounds. By 
virtue of their unique composition, nuts are likely to beneficially impact 
health outcomes. Epidemiologic studies have associated nut consumption with a 
reduced incidence of coronary heart disease and gallstones in both genders and 
diabetes in women. Limited evidence also suggests beneficial effects on 
hypertension, cancer, and inflammation. Interventional studies consistently show 
that nut intake has a cholesterol-lowering effect, even in the context of 
healthy diets, and there is emerging evidence of beneficial effects on oxidative 
stress, inflammation, and vascular reactivity. Blood pressure, visceral 
adiposity and the metabolic syndrome also appear to be positively influenced by 
nut consumption. Thus it is clear that nuts have a beneficial impact on many 
cardiovascular risk factors. Contrary to expectations, epidemiologic studies and 
clinical trials suggest that regular nut consumption is unlikely to contribute 
to obesity and may even help in weight loss. Safety concerns are limited to the 
infrequent occurrence of nut allergy in children. In conclusion, nuts are 
nutrient rich foods with wide-ranging cardiovascular and metabolic benefits, 
which can be readily incorporated into healthy diets.

DOI: 10.3390/nu2070652
PMCID: PMC3257681
PMID: 22254047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]