1. Pediatr Dermatol. 2025 Mar-Apr;42(2):259-266. doi: 10.1111/pde.15807. Epub
2024  Nov 11.

Food Allergy Test-Guided Dietary Advice for Children With Atopic Dermatitis: A 
Consensus Study.

Garside L(1), Boyle R(2), Meyer R(3)(4), Skypala I(5), Allen H(6), Beattie P(7), 
Dempsey J(8), Doyle M(9), Evans-Howells H(10), Feeney M(1)(11), Ludman S(12), 
Marrs T(5), Ravenscroft J(13), Stiefel G(14), Umasunthar T(15), Vyas D(16), 
Yerlett N(17), Walsh J(18), Brown SJ(19), Ridd MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Excellence in Skin & Allergy Research, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(2)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(3)Winchester University, Winchester, UK.
(4)KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(5)Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(6)Imperial College London, London, UK.
(7)Royal Hospital for Children, Glasgow, UK.
(8)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.
(9)Jersey Allergy Clinic, St Lawrence, Jersey, UK.
(10)Dr Helen Allergy, Bournemouth, UK.
(11)King's College London, London, UK.
(12)Royal Devon University Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, Exeter, UK.
(13)Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK.
(14)University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK.
(15)Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford, UK.
(16)West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust, Watford, UK.
(17)Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(18)Castle Partnership, Norwich, UK.
(19)University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: The use of blood specific IgE or skin prick tests (SPT) to guide 
dietary exclusions for disease control in children with atopic dermatitis (AD) 
is controversial. We undertook a consensus exercise on how to interpret SPT 
results and dietary history for cow's milk, hen's egg, wheat, and soy in 
children < 2 years old with AD.
METHODS: Fourteen clinicians from general practice, pediatrics, pediatric 
dermatology, pediatric allergy, and pediatric dietetics from UK and Ireland took 
part in an online modified Delphi study. Over three rounds, participants gave 
their anonymous opinions and received individualized and group feedback, based 
on the premise that all children had SPTs. The findings were discussed in an 
online workshop.
RESULTS: Of 18 symptoms, 12 were identified as relevant to immediate and 7 to 
delayed allergy. Regarding SPTs, there was consensus over which allergens to use 
for wheat and soy but not cow's milk or hen's egg; for all study foods, wheal 
size was determined as 0-1 mm negative, ≥ 5 mm sensitized, but between 2 and 
4 mm, categorization varied by food. During the final workshop, consensus was 
reached on dietary advice for nine combinations of SPT results and dietary 
history.
CONCLUSION: We attained consensus on how SPTs and dietary history for four 
common food allergens should be interpreted in young children under 2 years of 
age with AD. These pragmatic recommendations may support clinician education, 
consistency of decision-making, and future research.

© 2024 The Author(s). Pediatric Dermatology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/pde.15807
PMCID: PMC11950804
PMID: 39528241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.W. has sat on clinical advisory panels to 
Allergy UK and Anaphylaxis UK. G.S. acts as Trustee to Allergy UK, contributed 
to an educational video on atopic dermatitis with Sanofi and is Principal 
Investigator for NARF study. R.M. is on the advisory panel of CoMISS supported 
by Nestle Health Science, has provided consultancy to Else Nutrition, and 
received honoraria for lectures from Nutricia/Danone, Abbott, and Reckitt 
Benckiser. I.S. has received honoraria for lectures from ThermoFisher, Royal 
College of GPs, TouchiME. M.J.R. is chief investigator on the TIGER (Trial of 
IgE food allergy tests for Eczema Relief) study (NIHR133464). S.J.B. has 
received research funding (but no personal financial benefits) from the Wellcome 
Trust (220875/Z/20/Z), UKRI, Medical Research Council, Rosetrees Trust, 
Stoneygates Trust, British Skin Foundation, Charles Wolfson Charitable Trust, 
anonymous donations from people with eczema, Unilever, Pfizer, Abbvie, 
Sosei‐Heptares, Janssen, European Lead Factory (multiple industry partners) and 
the BIOMAP consortium (EC‐IMI project ref. No 821511).


2. World Allergy Organ J. 2024 Sep 10;17(9):100947. doi: 
10.1016/j.waojou.2024.100947. eCollection 2024 Sep.

World Allergy Organization (WAO) Diagnosis and Rationale for Action against 
Cow's Milk Allergy (DRACMA) guideline update - XI - Milk supplement/replacement 
formulas for infants and toddlers with CMA - Systematic review.

Bognanni A(1)(2)(3), Firmino RT(4), Arasi S(5), Chu DK(1)(3)(6), Chu AWL(3)(7), 
Waffenschmidt S(8), Agarwal A(9), Dziechciarz P(10), Horvath A(10), Mihara 
H(11), Roldan Y(12), Terracciano L(13)(14), Martelli A(15), Starok A(16), Said 
M(17), Shamir R(18), Ansotegui IJ(19), Dahdah L(5), Ebisawa M(20), Galli E(21), 
Kamenwa R(22), Lack G(23)(24), Li H(25), Pawankar R(26), Warner A(27), Wong 
GWK(28), Bozzola M(29), Assa'Ad A(30), Dupont C(31), Bahna S(32), Spergel 
J(33)(34), Venter C(35)(36), Szajewska H(37), Nowak-Wegrzyn AH(38)(39), 
Vandenplas Y(40)(41), Papadopoulos NG(42)(43), Waserman S(6), Fiocchi A(5), 
Schünemann HJ(2), Brożek JL(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence & Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Clinical Epidemiology and Research Center (CERC), Humanitas University & 
Humanitas Research Hospital, Pieve Emanuele, Milano, Italy.
(3)Department of Medicine, Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Academic Unit of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Campina Grande, 
Patos, Paraíba, Brazil.
(5)Translational Research in Pediatric Specialties Area, Division of Allergy, 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care, Cologne, Germany.
(9)Department of Medicine, Division of Internal Medicine, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(10)Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(11)Clinical Development Infectious Disease, Moderna Japan Co., Ltd., Japan.
(12)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(13)Pediatric Primary Care, National Pediatric Health Care System, Milan, Italy.
(14)Italian Society of Preventive and Social Pediatrics (SIPPS), Italy.
(15)Italian Society of Allergy and Pediatric Immunology (SIAIP), Italy.
(16)Evidence Prime Inc., Krakow, Poland.
(17)Allergy & Anaphylaxis Australia, Sydney, Australia.
(18)Institute for Gastroenterology, Nutrition and Liver Diseases, Schneider 
Children's Medical Center of Israel, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, Tel 
Aviv University, Israel.
(19)Department of Allergy & Immunology, Hospital Quironsalud Bizkaia, Erandio, 
Bilbao, Spain.
(20)Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, NHO Sagamihara 
National Hospital, Kanagawa, Japan.
(21)Pediatric Allergy Unit, Research Center, San Pietro Hospital - 
Fatebenefratelli, Rome, Italy.
(22)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, Aga Khan University Hospital, 
Nairobi, Kenya.
(23)Department of Women and Children's Health/Peter Gorer Department of 
Immunobiology, School of Life Course Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences & 
Medicine, King's College London, United Kingdom.
(24)Evelina London Children's Hospital, Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, United Kingdom.
(25)Department of Primary Child Care, Children's Hospital, Chongqing Medical 
University, China.
(26)Department of Pediatrics. Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, Japan.
(27)Allergy UK, Crayford, Kingdom, United Kingdom.
(28)Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(29)Pediatric Allergy and Immunology Section, Dept of Pediatrics, Hospital 
Británico de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(30)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, and the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, 
USA.
(31)Clinique Marcel Sembat, Ramsay Group, Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(32)Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center - Shreveport, Shreveport, 
LA, USA.
(33)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
USA.
(34)Perelman School of Medicine at University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(35)Section of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, University of Colorado, USA.
(36)Children's Hospital Colorado. Denver, Colorado, USA.
(37)Department of Paediatrics, The Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(38)Department of Pediatrics, Hassenfeld Children's Hospital, New York 
University, Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(39)Department of Pediatrics, Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Collegium Medicum, 
University of Warmia and Mazury, Olsztyn, Poland.
(40)Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), UZ Brussel, Belgium.
(41)KidZ Health Castle, Brussels, Belgium.
(42)Allergy Department, 2nd Pediatric Clinic, University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.
(43)Lydia Becker Institute, University of Manchester, Manchester, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Cow's milk allergy (CMA) is the most complex and common food allergy 
in infants. Elimination of cow's milk from the diet and replacement with a 
specialized formula for infants with cow's milk allergy who cannot be breastfed 
is an established approach to minimize the risk of severe allergic reactions 
while avoiding nutritional deficiencies. Given the availability of multiple 
options, such as extensively hydrolyzed cow's milk-based formula (eHF-CM), 
aminoacid formula (AAF), hydrolyzed rice formula (HRF), and soy formula (SF), 
there is some uncertainty regarding which formula might represent the most 
suitable choice with respect to health outcomes. The addition of probiotics to a 
specialized formula has also been proposed as a potential approach to possibly 
increase the benefit. We systematically reviewed specialized formulas for 
infants with CMA to inform the updated World Allergy Organization (WAO) DRACMA 
guidelines.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically review and synthesize the available evidence about 
the use of specialized formulas for the management of individuals with CMA.
METHODS: We searched from inception PubMed, Medline, Embase, the Cochrane 
Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), and the websites of selected 
allergy organizations, for randomized and non-randomized trials of any language 
investigating specialized formulas with or without probiotics. We included all 
studies irrespective of the language of the original publication. The last 
search was conducted in January 2024. We synthesized the identified evidence 
quantitatively or narratively as appropriate and summarized it in the evidence 
profiles. We conducted this review following the PRISMA, Cochrane methods, and 
the GRADE approach.
RESULTS: We identified 3558 records including 14 randomized trials and 7 
observational studies. Very low certainty evidence suggested that in infants 
with IgE-mediated CMA, eHF-CM, compared with AAF, might have higher probability 
of outgrowing CMA (risk ratio (RR) 2.32; risk difference (RD) 25 more per 100), 
while showing potentially lower probability of severe vomiting (RR 0.12, 95% CI 
0.02 to 0.88; RD 23 fewer per 100, 95% CI 3 to 26) and developing food 
protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) (RR 0.15, 95% CI 0.03 to 0.82; RD 
34 fewer per 100, 95% CI 7 to 39). We also found, however, that eHF-CM might be 
inferior to AAF in supporting a physiological growth, with respect to both 
weight (-5.5% from baseline, 95%CI -9.5% to -1.5%) and length (-0.7 z-score 
change, 95%CI -1.15 to -0.25) (very low certainty). We found similar effects for 
eHF-CM, compared with AAF, also in non-IgE CMA. When compared with SF, eHF-CM 
might favor weight gain for IgE CMA infants (0.23 z-score change, 95%CI 0.01 to 
0.45), and tolerance acquisition (RR 1.86, 95%CI 1.03 to 3.37; RD 27%, 95%CI 
1%-74%) for non-IgE CMA (both at very low certainty of the evidence (CoE)). The 
comparison of eHF-CM vs. HRF, and HRF vs. SF, showed no difference in effect 
(very low certainty). For IgE CMA patients, low certainty evidence suggested 
that adding probiotics (L. rhamnosus GG, L. casei CRL431 and B. lactis Bb-12) 
might increase the probability of developing CMA tolerance (RR 2.47, 95%CI 1.03 
to 5.93; RD 27%, 95%CI 1%-91%), and reduce the risk of severe wheezing (RR 0.12, 
95%CI 0.02 to 0.95; RD -23%, 95%CI -8% to -0.4%). However, in non-IgE CMA 
infants, the addition of probiotics (L. rhamnosus GG) showed no significant 
effect, as supported by low to very low CoE.
CONCLUSIONS: Currently available studies comparing eHF-CM, AAF, HRF, and SF 
provide very low certainty evidence about their effects in infants with 
IgE-mediated and non-IgE-mediated CMA. Our review revealed several limitations 
in the current body of evidence, primarily arising from concerns related to the 
quality of studies, the limited size of the participant populations and most 
importantly the lack of diversity and standardization in the compared 
interventions. It is therefore imperative for future studies to be 
methodologically rigorous and investigate a broader spectrum of available 
interventions. We encourage clinicians and researchers to review current World 
Allergy Organization (WAO) Diagnosis and Rationale for Action against Cow's Milk 
Allergy (DRACMA) Guidelines for suggestions on how to use milk replacement 
formulas in clinical practice and what additional research would be the most 
beneficial.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.waojou.2024.100947
PMCID: PMC11415968
PMID: 39310372

Conflict of interest statement: HJS and JLB, on behalf of McMaster University, 
received a research grant from the World Allergy Organization to conduct this 
review that was deposited into the university research account. RS participated 
as a clinical investigator, and/or advisory board member, and/or consultant, 
and/or speaker for Abbott, Else, and Nestlé. HS serves as a board member of the 
International Scientific Association for Probiotics and Prebiotics (ISAPP), an 
unpaid and voluntary role. They have participated as a clinical investigator, 
advisory board member, consultant, and speaker for several companies, including 
Arla, BioGaia, Biocodex, Danone, Dicofarm, Nestlé, NNI, Nutricia, Mead Johnson, 
and Novalac. YV has participated as a clinical investigator, and/or advisory 
board member, and/or consultant, and/or speaker for Abbott Nutrition, Alba 
Health, Arla, Ausnutria, Biogaia, By Heart, CHR Hansen, Danone, ELSE Nutrition, 
Friesland Campina, Nestle Health Science, Nestle Nutrition Institute, Nutricia, 
Mead Johnson Nutrition, Pileje, Sanulac, United Pharmaceuticals (Novalac), 
Yakult, Wyeth. SW is the president of the Canadian Allergy Asthma and Immunology 
Foundation, and participated as a clinical investigator, and/or advisory board 
member, and/or consultant, and/or speaker for Pfizer, Kaleo, Bausch Health, GSK, 
AZ, Sanofi, CSL Behring, Leo, AbbVie, Takeda, Medexus Pharma, MiravoHealth, 
BioCryst, ALK, Novartis. They also covered the positions of: BOD Asthma Canada, 
CHAEN. MS works for Allergy & Anaphylaxis Australis, which receives unrestricted 
educational grants from infant formula companies. AW works for Allergy UK works 
with corporate partners including those providing foods for special medical 
purposes, such as Nutricia/Danone, Abbott, Reckitt Benckiser/Mead Johnson. They 
have been a speakers for 2 Nutricia symposia, with honoraria being paid to the 
charity. All other authors declare that they have no relevant conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


3. World Allergy Organ J. 2024 Mar 26;17(4):100888. doi: 
10.1016/j.waojou.2024.100888. eCollection 2024 Apr.

World Allergy Organization (WAO) Diagnosis and Rationale for Action against 
Cow's Milk Allergy (DRACMA) guideline update - XII - Recommendations on milk 
formula supplements with and without probiotics for infants and toddlers with 
CMA.

Bognanni A(1)(2)(3), Fiocchi A(4), Arasi S(4), Chu DK(2)(5), Ansotegui I(6), 
Assa'ad AH(7), Bahna SL(8), Berni Canani R(9), Bozzola M(5)(10), Dahdah L(4), 
Dupont C(11)(12), Dziechciarz P(13), Ebisawa M(14), Firmino RT(15), Chu A(2)(5), 
Galli E(16), Horvath A(13), Kamenwa R(17), Lack G(18), Li H(19), Martelli A(20), 
Nowak-Węgrzyn A(21)(22), Papadopoulos NG(23)(24), Pawankar R(25), Roldan Y(1), 
Said M(26), Sánchez-Borges M(27), Shamir R(28), Spergel JM(29), Szajewska H(13), 
Terracciano L(30), Vandenplas Y(31), Venter C(32), Waffenschmidt S(1)(33), 
Waserman S(5), Warner A(34), Wong GWK(35), Schünemann HJ(1)(3)(36), Brozek 
JL(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence & Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Medicine, Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.
(4)Translational Research in Pediatric Specialties Area, Division of Allergy, 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4, Rome 00165, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Hospital Quironsalud Bizkaia, Bilbao-Erandio, Spain.
(7)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(8)Allergy and Immunology Section, Louisiana State University Health Sciences 
Center, Shreveport, LA, USA.
(9)Pediatric Allergy Program at the Department of Translational Medical Science, 
and ImmunoNutritionLab at Ceinge Advanced Biotechnologies, University of Naples 
Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, British Hospital-Perdriel, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(11)Paris Descartes University, Pediatric Gastroenterology, Necker Hospital, 
Paris, France.
(12)Clinique Marcel Sembat, Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(13)Department of Paediatrics, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(14)Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, National Hospital 
Organization, Sagamihara National Hospital, Kanagawa, Japan.
(15)Faculty of Medical Sciences of Campina Grande, UNIFACISA University Centre, 
Campina Grande, Paraiba, Brazil.
(16)Pediatric Allergy Unit, San Pietro Hospital - Fatebenefratelli, Rome, Italy.
(17)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Aga Khan University Hospital, 
Nairobi, Kenya.
(18)King's College London, Asthma-UK Centre in Allergic Mechanisms of Asthma, 
Department of Pediatric Allergy, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.
(19)Department of Primary Child Care, Children's Hospital, Chongqing Medical 
University, China.
(20)Member of Italian Society of Allergy and Pediatric Immunology (SIAIP), 
Italy.
(21)Department of Pediatrics, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, Hassenfeld 
Children's Hospital, New York, NY, USA.
(22)Department of Pediatrics, Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Collegium Medicum, 
University of Warmia and Mazury, Olsztyn, Poland.
(23)Division of Infection, Immunity and Respiratory Medicine, School of 
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(24)Allergy Department, 2nd Paediatric Clinic, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(25)Division of Allergy, Department of Pediatrics, Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(26)Allergy & Anaphylaxis Australia, Castle Hill, New South Wales, Australia.
(27)Allergy and Clinical Immunology Department, Centro Médico Docente La 
Trinidad and Clínica El Avila, Caracas, Venezuela.
(28)Institute for Gastroenterology, Nutrition and Liver Diseases, Schneider 
Children's Medical Center of Israel, Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, 
Tel Aviv, Israel.
(29)Division of Allergy and Immunology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(30)Pediatric Primary Care, National Pediatric Health Care System, Milan, Italy.
(31)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(32)Section of Allergy and Immunology, Children's Hospital Colorado, University 
of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA.
(33)Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care, Cologne, Germany.
(34)Allergy UK, London, England, UK.
(35)Department of Paediatrics, Prince of Wales Hospital, Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong.
(36)Department of Medicine, Division of Internal Medicine, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Cow's milk allergy (CMA) is the most common food allergy in infants. 
The replacement with specialized formulas is an established clinical approach to 
ensure adequate growth and minimize the risk of severe allergic reactions when 
breastfeeding is not possible. Still, given the availability of multiple 
options, such as extensively hydrolyzed cow's milk protein formula (eHF-CM), 
amino acid formula (AAF), hydrolyzed rice formula (HRF) and soy formulas (SF), 
there is some uncertainty as to the most suitable choice with respect to health 
outcomes. Furthermore, the addition of probiotics to a formula has been proposed 
as a potential approach to maximize benefit.
OBJECTIVE: These evidence-based guidelines from the World Allergy Organization 
(WAO) intend to support patients, clinicians, and others in decisions about the 
use of milk specialized formulas, with and without probiotics, for individuals 
with CMA.
METHODS: WAO formed a multidisciplinary guideline panel balanced to include the 
views of all stakeholders and to minimize potential biases from competing 
interests. The McMaster University GRADE Centre supported the 
guideline-development process, including updating or performing systematic 
evidence reviews. The panel prioritized clinical questions and outcomes 
according to their importance for clinicians and patients. The Grading of 
Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach was 
used, including GRADE Evidence-to-Decision frameworks, which were subject to 
review by stakeholders.
RESULTS: After reviewing the summarized evidence and thoroughly discussing the 
different management options, the WAO guideline panel suggests: a) using an 
extensively hydrolyzed (cow's milk) formula or a hydrolyzed rice formula as the 
first option for managing infants with immunoglobulin E (IgE) and 
non-IgE-mediated CMA who are not being breastfed. An amino-acid formula or a soy 
formula could be regarded as second and third options respectively; b) using 
either a formula without a probiotic or a casein-based extensively hydrolyzed 
formula containing Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) for infants with either 
IgE or non-IgE-mediated CMA.The issued recommendations are labeled as 
"conditional" following the GRADE approach due to the very low certainty about 
the health effects based on the available evidence.
CONCLUSIONS: If breastfeeding is not available, clinicians, patients, and their 
family members might want to discuss all the potential desirable and undesirable 
consequences of each formula in infants with CMA, integrating them with the 
patients' and caregivers' values and preferences, local availability, and cost, 
before deciding on a treatment option. We also suggest what research is needed 
to determine with greater certainty which formulas are likely to be the most 
beneficial, cost-effective, and equitable.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.waojou.2024.100888
PMCID: PMC11068951
PMID: 38706757

Conflict of interest statement: The conduction of these guidelines was funded by 
WAO and the McMaster University GRADE Centre. Direct funding by for-profit 
companies was not accepted. The guideline panel members received travel 
reimbursement for attendance at in-person meetings but received no other 
payments. The funding was also used as salary support for the information 
scientist running the original searches, and for research assistants and 
students conducting the systematic reviews. Some members of the method team who 
contributed to the systematic review conduction participated without 
remuneration to fulfill requirements of an academic degree or program. COIs of 
all participants were managed according to WAO policies based on guidance by the 
National Academy of Medicine2 and GIN3. Before commencing the project, all the 
participants were asked to disclose any financial and nonfinancial interests 
relevant to the guidelines by completing the World Health Organization (WHO) 
declaration of interest forms. An independent and anonymous WAO committee 
revised the disclosed interests looking for COIs. The revision committee 
reviewed the forms and deliberated on including panel members aiming to achieve 
a diversity of expertise and perspectives, while minimizing the inclusion of 
panel members with the same or similar conflicts. Specifically, the committee 
placed a high value on addressing conflicts from direct financial interests from 
for-profit companies related to the guidelines' field. Throughout the 
guidelines’ development, the members of the panel and method team were asked to 
update the interest disclosure forms, which were again revised by the WAO 
committee. At the time of appointment, most of the guideline panel, including 
one of the guideline panel co-chair (HJS), had no conflicts of interest. The 
other co-chair (AF) was aware of economic support by for-profit entities 
provided to WAO in the form of educational grants; therefore, he abstained from 
voting on all recommendations in the DRACMA guidelines. The method team members 
deemed to have a real, potential, or perceived conflict of interest related to 
the topic of a systematic review were excluded from partaking in that review. 
Likewise, guideline panel members with manageable real, potential, or perceived 
conflict of interest abstained from voting on recommendations related to that 
interest, while being still able to provide intellectual input and clinical 
expertise. The Evidence-to-Decision (EtD) tables for each recommendation list 
individuals who were excused from voting. One proposed panel member was found 
with disqualifying competing interests and was excluded from the DRACMA project 
entirely.S Arasi, S Bahna, A Bognanni, J Brozek, D Chu, L Dahdah, P Dziechciarz, 
E Galli, R Kamenwa, H Li, A Martelli, R Pawankar, H Schunemann, R Targino, L 
Terracciano, and A Warner have no conflicts to disclose. Relationships reported 
related to the submitted work: IJ Anstotegui – Abbott, Amgen, Astra Zeneca, 
Bayer, Bial, Faes Farma, Hikma, Menarini, Merck, Mundipharma, Roxall, Sanofi, 
Stallergenes, UCB. A Assa'ad – Aimmune Therapeutics, DBV Technologies, Astella, 
ABBVIE, Novartis, Sanofi, FARE, NIH and an intellectual property patent licensed 
to Hoth. R Berni Canani – Ch.Hansen, Danone, DVB, Humana, iHealth, Kraft Heinz, 
Mead Johnson, Nestlè, Novalac, Nutricia, Sanofi. M Bozzola – Danone. C Dupont – 
Nestle Health Science, Nestle France, Nutricia, Novalac, Sodilac, Abbott, 
Danone, and stock ownership at DBV Technologies. M Ebisawa – DBV Technologies, 
Mylan, ARS Pharmaceuticals, Novartis. A Fiocchi – Abbott, Danone. G Lack – FARE, 
National Peanut Board (NPB), The Davis Foundation, Action Medical Research, UK 
Food Standards Agency, Medical Research Council, DBV Technologies, Mission 
Mighty Me, Novartis, Sanofi-Genyzme, Regeneron, ALK-Abello, Lurie Children's 
Hospital. A Nowak-Wegrzyn – Nestle, Nutricia, Novartis, Gerber, Aimmune. N 
Papadopoulos – Novartis, Nutricia, HAL Allergy, Menarini/Faes Farma, Sanofi, 
Mylan/Meda, Biomay, AstraZeneca, GSK, MSD, ASIT Biotech, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Gerolymatos International SA, Capricare. M Said – Nestle, Nutricia, Abbott, 
Bayer for Anaphylaxis Australia. R Shamir - Abbott, Else, Nestle. J Spergel – 
DBV Technologies, Regeneron, Sanofi, and Aimmune. H Szajewska – Ausnutria, 
Cargill, Danone, Else Nutrition, Hipp, Nestle, and Nestle Nutrition Institute. Y 
Vandenplas – Abbott Nutrition, Biogaia, Biocodex, By Heart, CHR Hansen, Danone, 
ELSE Nutrition, Friesland Campina, Hero, Hypocrata, Nestle Health Science, 
Nestle Nutrition Institute, Nutricia, Mead Johnson Nutrition, Orafti, Phacobel, 
Phathom Pharmaceuticals, Sari Husada, United Pharmaceuticals (Novalac), Wyeth, 
Yakult. C Venter – Reckitt Benckiser, Nestle Nutrition Institute, Danone, Abbott 
Nutrition, Else Nutrition, and Before Brands, DBV Technologies. A Warner - 
Nutricia/Danone, Abbott, Reckitt Benckiser/Mead Johnson, Nutricia/Danone for 
Allergy UK. S Waserman – Novartis-basic science work on peanut allergy, 
Aimmune-peanut OIT trial, Medical Advisor to Food Allergy Canada, and Pfizer, 
Bausch, Kaleoconsultant for epinephrine autoinjectors. GWK Wong – Nestle, 
Danone.


4. World Allergy Organ J. 2023 Jul 24;16(7):100785. doi: 
10.1016/j.waojou.2023.100785. eCollection 2023 Jul.

World Allergy Organization (WAO) Diagnosis and Rationale for Action against 
Cow's Milk Allergy (DRACMA) Guideline update - VII - Milk elimination and 
reintroduction in the diagnostic process of cow's milk allergy.

Meyer R(1), Venter C(2), Bognanni A(3)(4), Szajewska H(5), Shamir R(6), 
Nowak-Wegrzyn A(7), Fiocchi A(8), Vandenplas Y(9); WAO DRACMA Guideline Group.

Author information:
(1)Faculty Medicine, Imperial College London, Department Nutrition and 
Dietetics, Winchester University, UK and Faculty Medicine, KU Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Children's Hospital Colorado, University of Colorado, Denver, CO, USA.
(3)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence & Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Evidence in Allergy Group; Department of Medicine and Health Research 
Methods, Evidence and Impact, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Paediatrics, The Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(6)Institute of Gastroenterology, Nutrition and Liver Diseases, Schneider 
Children's Medical Center of Israel, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Israel.
(7)Hassenfeld Children's Hospital, Department of Pediatrics, NYU Grossman School 
of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Allergy Unit - Area of Translational Research in Pediatric Specialities, 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(9)Vrije Universiteit Brussel, UZ Brussel, KidZ Health Castle, Brussels, 
Belgium.

The diagnosis of cow's milk allergy (CMA) in infants and young children remains 
a challenge because many of the presenting symptoms are similar to those 
experienced in other diagnoses. Both over- and under-diagnosis occur frequently. 
Misdiagnosis carries allergic and nutritional risks, including acute reactions, 
growth faltering, micronutrient deficiencies and a diminished quality of life 
for infants and caregivers. An inappropriate diagnosis may also add a financial 
burden on families and on the healthcare system. Elimination and reintroduction 
of cow's milk (CM) and its derivatives is essential for diagnosing CMA as well 
as inducing tolerance to CM. In non-IgE mediated CMA, the diagnostic elimination 
diet typically requires 2-4 weeks before reintroduction, while for IgE mediated 
allergy the time window may be shorter (1-2 weeks). An oral food challenge (OFC) 
under medical supervision remains the most reliable diagnostic method for IgE 
mediated and more severe types of non-IgE mediated CMA such as food protein 
induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES). Conversely, for other forms of non-IgE 
mediated CMA, reintroduction can be performed at home. The OFC cannot be 
replaced by the milk ladder after a diagnostic elimination diet. The duration of 
the therapeutic elimination diet, once a diagnosis was confirmed, can only be 
established through testing changes in sensitization status, OFCs or home 
reintroduction, which are directed by local protocols and services' 
availability. Prior non-evidence-based recommendations suggest that the first 
therapeutic elimination diet should last for at least 6 months or up to the age 
of 9-12 months, whichever is reached first. After a therapeutic elimination 
diet, a milk-ladder approach can be used for non-IgE mediated allergies to 
determine tolerance. Whilst some centers use the milk ladder also for IgE 
mediated allergies, there are concerns about the risk of having immediate-type 
reactions at home. Milk ladders have been adapted to local dietary habits, and 
typically start with small amounts of baked milk which then step up in the 
ladder to less heated and fermented foods, increasing the allergenicity. This 
publication aims to narratively review the risks associated with under- and 
over-diagnosis of CMA, therefore stressing the necessity of an appropriate 
diagnosis and management.

© 2023 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.waojou.2023.100785
PMCID: PMC10401347
PMID: 37546235

Conflict of interest statement: RM has participated as a clinical investigator, 
and/or advisory board member, and/or consultant, and/or speaker for Abbott 
Nutrition, ELSE, Nestlé Nutrition Institute, Nestle Health Science, 
Nutricia/Danone and Mead Johnson. CV reports grants from Reckitt Benckiser, 
grants from Food Allergy Research and Education, grants from National Peanut 
Board, during the conduct of the study; and personal fees from Reckitt 
Benckiser, Nestle Nutrition Institute, Danone, Abbott Nutrition, Else Nutrition, 
and Before Brands, outside the submitted work. AB has no direct or indirect 
conflict to disclose. HS academic-associated speaking engagements and/or 
received research funding from companies manufacturing infant formulae such as 
Arla, Danone, Hipp, Nestlé Health Science, Nestlé Nutrition Insitutie, Nutricia, 
Mead Johnson. RS has participated as a clinical investigator, and/or advisory 
board member, and/or consultant, and/or speaker for Abbott, ELSE, Nestlé 
Nutrition Institute, Nestle Health Science, NGS, Nutricia, Soremartec and Ukko. 
ANW receives research support from Alladapt Immunotherapeutics and Regeneron, 
speaking fees from Nestle, Danone, and Thermofisher; royalties from UpToDate; 
she serves as an Associate Editor for the Annals of Allergy, Asthma and 
Immunology, chair of the ABAI Board of Directors, director of the AAAAI Board, 
and the Chair of the Medical Advisory Board of the International FPIES 
Association. AF has participated as a clinical investigator, and/or advisory 
board member, and/or consultant, and/or speaker for Abbott Nutrition, Danone, 
Soremartec, Novartis, Astrazeneca, Vertex, GSK, Sanofi, DVB, and Aimmune. YV has 
participated as a clinical investigator, and/or advisory board member, and/or 
consultant, and/or speaker for Abbott Nutrition, Ausnutria, Biogaia, By Heart, 
CHR Hansen, Danone, ELSE Nutrition, Friesland Campina, Nestle Health Science, 
Nestle Nutrition Institute, Nutricia, Mead Johnson Nutrition, Pileje, Sanulac, 
United Pharmaceuticals (Novalac), Yakult, Wyeth.


5. Allergy. 2022 Aug;77(8):2552-2555. doi: 10.1111/all.15320. Epub 2022 May 5.

Selenomethionine attenuates allergic effector responses in human primary mast 
cells.

Zhao X(1)(2)(3)(4), Blokhuis BRJ(2), Redegeld FA(2), Chang I(5), Dunham D(5), 
Chen H(1)(4), Nadeau K(5), Garssen J(2)(6), Knippels LMJ(2)(6), Hogenkamp A(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Nanchang University, 
Jiangxi, China.
(2)Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences 
(UIPS), Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)School of Food Science Technology, Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, 
China.
(4)Sino-German Joint Research Institute, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(5)Global Centre of Excellence Immunology, Danone/Nutricia Research, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.
(6)Sean N. Parker Center for Allergy and Asthma Research, Division of Pulmonary, 
Allergy, Critical Care Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/all.15320
PMCID: PMC9710852
PMID: 35451124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Leon Knippels is current Danone Nutricia 
employee, and Johan Garssen is a part time employee of Danone Nutricia Research 
and Utrecht University. Dr. Nadeau reports grants from National Institute of 
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute (NHLBI), National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), 
and Food Allergy Research & Education (FARE); stock options from IgGenix, Seed 
Health, ClostraBio, and ImmuneID; is Director of the World Allergy Organization 
Center of Excellence for Stanford, Advisor at Cour Pharma, Consultant for 
Excellergy, Red tree ventures, Eli Lilly, and Phylaxis, Co‐founder of Before 
Brands, Alladapt, Latitude, and IgGenix; and National Scientific Committee 
member at Immune Tolerance Network (ITN), and National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) clinical research centers, outside the submitted work; patents include, 
“Mixed allergen composition and methods for using the same,” “Granulocyte‐based 
methods for detecting and monitoring immune system disorders,” and “Methods and 
Assays for Detecting and Quantifying Pure Subpopulations of White Blood Cells in 
Immune System Disorders.” All remaining authors declare no conflict of interest.


6. Allergy. 2022 Jun;77(6):1736-1750. doi: 10.1111/all.15167. Epub 2021 Nov 24.

Proposal of 0.5 mg of protein/100 g of processed food as threshold for voluntary 
declaration of food allergen traces in processed food-A first step in an 
initiative to better inform patients and avoid fatal allergic reactions: A 
GA²LEN position paper.

Zuberbier T(1), Dörr T(1), Aberer W(2), Alvaro M(3), Angier E(4), Arasi S(5), 
Arshad H(6)(7)(8), Ballmer-Weber B(9)(10), Bartra J(11)(12), Beck L(13), Bégin 
P(14), Bindslev-Jensen C(15), Bislimovska J(16), Bousquet J(1)(17)(18), Brockow 
K(19), Bush A(20), Cianferoni A(21), Cork MJ(22), Custovic A(23), Darsow U(19), 
de Jong N(24), Deleanu D(25), Del Giacco S(26), Deschildre A(27)(28), Dunn 
Galvin A(29)(30)(31), Ebisawa M(32), Fernández-Rivas M(33), Ferrer M(34), 
Fiocchi A(5), Gerth van Wijk R(24), Gotua M(35), Grimshaw K(36), Grünhagen J(1), 
Heffler E(37)(38), Hide M(39), Hoffmann-Sommergruber K(40), Incorvaia C(41), 
Janson C(42), Malte John S(43)(44), Jones C(45), Jutel M(46)(47), Katoh N(48), 
Kendziora B(49), Kinaciyan T(50), Knol E(51)(52), Kurbacheva O(53), Lau S(54), 
Loh R(55), Lombardi C(56), Mäkelä M(57), Marchisotto MJ(58)(59), Makris M(60), 
Maurer M(1), Meyer R(61), Mijakoski D(16), Minov J(16), Mullol J(62), Nilsson 
C(63)(64), Nowak-Wegrzyn A(65), Nwaru BI(66), Odemyr M(67), Pajno GB(68), Paudel 
S(69), Papadopoulos NG(70), Renz H(71)(72), Ricci G(73), Ring J(19)(74), Rogala 
B(75), Sampson H(76)(77)(78), Senna G(79), Sitkauskiene B(80), Smith PK(81), 
Stevanovic K(1), Stoleski S(16), Szajewska H(82), Tanaka A(83), Todo-Bom A(84), 
Topal FA(1), Valovirta E(85), Van Ree R(86), Venter C(87), Wöhrl S(88), Wong 
GWK(89), Zhao Z(90), Worm M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Humboldt-Uniersität zu Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, Comprehensive 
Allergy-Centre, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(3)Servei Al-lergologia Immunologia Clinica, Hospital Sant Joan de Deu, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Primary Care, Population Science and Medical Education, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(5)Pediatric Allergology Unit, Bambino Gesù Hospital (IRCCS), Rome, Italy.
(6)NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospital Southampton 
NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK.
(7)Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(8)The David Hide Asthma and Allergy Research Centre, St Mary's Hospital, Isle 
of Wight, UK.
(9)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(10)Clinic for Dermatology and Allergology, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, St. 
Gallen, Switzerland.
(11)Unitat d'Al.lergia, Servei de Neumologia i Al.lergia Respiratoria, Hospital 
Clinic, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(13)Department of Dermatology, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester, New York, USA.
(14)CHU Sainte-Justine, Montréal, Canada.
(15)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Center, Odense Research Centre for 
Anaphylaxis (ORCA), Odense University Hospital Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(16)Faculty of Medicine, Ss. Cyril and Methodius, University in Skopje, 
Institute of Occupational Health of RNM, WHO Collaborating Center, Skopje, 
Macedonia.
(17)University Hospital Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(18)MACVIA-France, Montpellier, France.
(19)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Biederstein, School of Medicine, 
Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(20)Imperial College and Royal Brompton Hospital, London, UK.
(21)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania, The Children's 
Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(22)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(23)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(24)Section of Allergology and Clinical Immunology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(25)University Medicine and Pharmacy Iuliu Hatieganu, IRGH, Allergy, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(26)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy.
(27)CHU Lille, Univ Lille, Lille, France.
(28)Pediatric Pulmonology and Allergy Unit, Hôpital Jeanne de Flandre, Lille, 
France.
(29)University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(30)Sechenov University Moscow, Moscow, Russia.
(31)Anaphylaxis Ireland, Cork, Ireland.
(32)Clinical Research Center for Allergy and Rheumatology, National Hospital 
Organization Sagamihara National Hospital, Sagamihara, Japan.
(33)Allergy Department, Facultad de Medicina, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, 
Universidad Complutense (UCM), IdISSC, Madrid, Spain.
(34)Department of Allergy, Clinica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(35)Center of Allergy and Immunology, Tbilisi, Georgia.
(36)Dietetic Department, Salford Care Organisation, Salford Royal Foundation 
Trust, Salford, UK.
(37)Personalized Medicine, Asthma and Allergy, IRCCS Humanitas Research 
Hospital, Rozzano (MI), Italy.
(38)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Pieve Emanuele 
(MI), Italy.
(39)Department of Dermatology, Hiroshima Citizens Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan.
(40)Department of Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Medical University of 
Vienna, Austria.
(41)Cardiac/Pulmonary Rehabilitation, ASST Pini/CTO, Milan, Italy.
(42)Department of Medical Sciences: Respiratory, Allergy and Sleep Research, 
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(43)Department of Dermatology, Environmental Medicine, Health Theory, University 
of Osnabrueck, Osnabrueck, Germany.
(44)Institute for Interdisciplinary Dermatological Prevention and Rehabilitation 
(iDerm) at the University of Osnabrueck, Osnabrueck, Germany.
(45)Allergy, Kent, UK.
(46)Department of Clinical Immunology, Wrocław Medical University, Poland.
(47)All-MED Medical Research Institute, Wrocław, Poland.
(48)Department of Dermatology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, 
Japan.
(49)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(50)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(51)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(52)Laboratory of Translational Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(53)NRC Institute of Immunology FMBA, Moscow, Russia.
(54)Pediatric Respiratory Medicine, Immunology and Critical Care Medicine, 
Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(55)Department of Immunology, Perth Children's Hospital, University of Western 
Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(56)Unità Dipartimentale di Allergologia-Immunologia Clinica & Malattie Apparato 
Respiratorio, Ente Ospedaliero Fondazione Poliambulanza, Brescia, Italy.
(57)Skin and Allergy Hospital, Helsinki University Hospital and University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(58)MJM Advisory, New York, New York, USA.
(59)Mary H. Weiser Food Allergy Center, University of Michigan Medicine, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(60)Allergy Unit, 2nd Dpt of Dermatology and Venereology, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Attikon University Hospital, Athens, Greece.
(61)Department of Paediatrics, Imperial College, London, UK.
(62)Rhinology Unit & Smell Clinic, ENT Department, Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS, 
Universitat de Barcelona, CIBERES, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(63)Sachs' Children and Youth Hospital, Södersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden.
(64)Department of Clinical Science and Education Södersjukhuset, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(65)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Department of Pediatrics, Jaffe Food 
Allergy Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Kravis Children's 
Hospital, New York, New York, USA.
(66)Krefting Research Centre, Institute of Medicine, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(67)Asthma and Allergy Association, Stockholm, Sweden.
(68)Pediatric unit, Policlinico Hospitsl, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(69)Civil Service Hospital, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(70)Allergy Dpt, 2nd Pediatric Clinic, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(71)Institute of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiochemistry, Molecular 
Diagnostics, Philipps University Marburg University Hospital Giessen and 
Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(72)Department of Clinical Immunology and Allergology, Laboratory of 
Immunopathology, Sechenov University, Moscow, Russia.
(73)Pediatric Unit, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(74)Christine Kühne Center for Allergy Research and Education (CK-Care), Davos, 
Switzerland.
(75)Department of Internal Diseases, Allergology & Clinical Immunology Medical, 
University of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.
(76)Elliot and Roslyn Jaffe Food Allergy Institute, New York, New York, USA.
(77)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Kravis Children's Hospital, New York, 
New York, USA.
(78)Department of Pediatrics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(79)Asthma Center and Allergy Unit, Verona University and General Hospital, 
Verona, Italy.
(80)Department of Immunology and Allergology, Lithuanian University of Health 
Sciences, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(81)Griffith University, Southport, Qld, Australia.
(82)Department of Paediatrics, The Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(83)Department of Dermatology, Graduate School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(84)Allergy and Clinical Immunology Unit, Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(85)Department of Lung Diseases and Clinical Allergology, University of Turku, 
and Terveystalo Turku, Allergy Clinic, Turku, Finland.
(86)Departments of Experimental Immunology and Otorhinolaryngology, Academic 
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(87)University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine and Children's Hospital 
Colorado, Aurora, Colorado, USA.
(88)Floridsdorf Allergy Center (FAZ), Vienna, Austria.
(89)Department of Paediatrics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong.
(90)Department of Dermatology, First Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Food anaphylaxis is commonly elicited by unintentional ingestion of 
foods containing the allergen above the tolerance threshold level of the 
individual. While labeling the 14 main allergens used as ingredients in food 
products is mandatory in the EU, there is no legal definition of declaring 
potential contaminants. Precautionary allergen labeling such as "may contain 
traces of" is often used. However, this is unsatisfactory for consumers as they 
get no information if the contamination is below their personal threshold. In 
discussions with the food industry and technologists, it was suggested to use a 
voluntary declaration indicating that all declared contaminants are below a 
threshold of 0.5 mg protein per 100 g of food. This concentration is known to be 
below the threshold of most patients, and it can be technically guaranteed in 
most food production. However, it was also important to assess that in case of 
accidental ingestion of contaminants below this threshold by highly allergic 
patients, no fatal anaphylactic reaction could occur. Therefore, we performed a 
systematic review to assess whether a fatal reaction to 5mg of protein or less 
has been reported, assuming that a maximum portion size of 1kg of a processed 
food exceeds any meal and thus gives a sufficient safety margin.
METHODS: MEDLINE and EMBASE were searched until 24 January 2021 for provocation 
studies and case reports in which one of the 14 major food allergens was 
reported to elicit fatal or life-threatening anaphylactic reactions and assessed 
if these occurred below the ingestion of 5mg of protein. A Delphi process was 
performed to obtain an expert consensus on the results.
RESULTS: In the 210 studies included, in our search, no reports of fatal 
anaphylactic reactions reported below 5 mg protein ingested were identified. 
However, in provocation studies and case reports, severe reactions below 5 mg 
were reported for the following allergens: eggs, fish, lupin, milk, nuts, 
peanuts, soy, and sesame seeds.
CONCLUSION: Based on the literature studied for this review, it can be stated 
that cross-contamination of the 14 major food allergens below 0.5 mg/100 g is 
likely not to endanger most food allergic patients when a standard portion of 
food is consumed. We propose to use the statement "this product contains the 
named allergens in the list of ingredients, it may contain traces of other 
contaminations (to be named, e.g. nut) at concentrations less than 0.5 mg per 
100 g of this product" for a voluntary declaration on processed food packages. 
This level of avoidance of cross-contaminations can be achieved technically for 
most processed foods, and the statement would be a clear and helpful message to 
the consumers. However, it is clearly acknowledged that a voluntary declaration 
is only a first step to a legally binding solution. For this, further research 
on threshold levels is encouraged.

© 2021 The Authors. Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.15167
PMID: 34741557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Allergy. 2015 Jun;70(6):616-24. doi: 10.1111/all.12582. Epub 2015 Mar 26.

Predictors of health-related quality of life of European food-allergic patients.

Saleh-Langenberg J(1)(2), Goossens NJ(1)(2), Flokstra-de Blok BM(2)(3), Kollen 
BJ(2), van der Meulen GN(1)(4), Le TM(5), Knulst AC(5), Jedrzejczak-Czechowicz 
M(6), Kowalski ML(6), Rokicka E(7), Starosta P(7), de la Hoz Caballer B(8), 
Vazquez-Cortés S(9), Cerecedo I(8), Barreales L(10), Asero R(11), Clausen M(12), 
DunnGalvin A(13), Hourihane JO(13), Purohit A(14), Papadopoulos NG(15)(16), 
Fernandéz-Rivas M(9), Frewer L(17)(18), Burney P(19), Duiverman EJ(1)(2), Dubois 
AE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Pulmonology and Pediatric Allergy, University of 
Groningen, University Medical Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(2)University of Groningen, University Medical Centre Groningen, GRIAC Research 
Institute, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of General Practice, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Paediatric Allergy, Martini Hospital, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Dermatology/Allergology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Immunology, Rheumatology and Allergy, Medical University of 
Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
(7)Faculty of Economics and Sociology, Lodz University, Lodz, Poland.
(8)Department of Allergy, University Hospital Ramón y Cajal, IRICYS, Madrid, 
Spain.
(9)Department of Allergy, Hospital Clinico San Carlos, IdISSC, Madrid, Spain.
(10)Department of Preventive Medicine, Research Unit, Hospital Clínico San 
Carlos, IdISSC, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Ambulatorio di Allergologia, Clinica San Carlo, Paderno Dugnano, Italy.
(12)Department of Allergy, Landspitali, University Hospital, Reykjavík, Iceland.
(13)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Clinical Investigation Unit, 
Cork University Hospital, University College, Cork, Ireland.
(14)Division of Allergy, Department of Chest Diseases, University Hospitals, 
University of Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France.
(15)Allergy Department, 2nd Pediatric Clinic, University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.
(16)Center for Pediatrics and Child Health, Institute of Human Development, 
University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(17)Food Safety and Consumer Behaviour, Marketing and Consumer Behaviour Group, 
Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(18)Food and Society Group, School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, 
Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK.
(19)Department of Respiratory Epidemiology and Public Health, National Heart and 
Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Although food allergy has universally been found to impair HRQL, 
studies have found significant differences in HRQL between countries, even when 
corrected for differences in perceived disease severity. However, little is 
known about factors other than disease severity which may contribute to HRQL in 
food-allergic patients. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify factors 
which may predict HRQL of food-allergic patients and also to investigate the 
specific impact of having experienced anaphylaxis and being prescribed an EAI on 
HRQL.
METHODS: A total of 648 European food-allergic patients (404 adults, 244 
children) completed an age-specific questionnaire package including descriptive 
questions. Multivariable regression analyses were performed to develop models 
for predicting HRQL of these patients.
RESULTS: For adults, the prediction model accounted for 62% of the variance in 
HRQL and included perceived disease severity, type of symptoms, having a fish or 
milk allergy, and gender. For children, the prediction model accounted for 28% 
of the variance in HRQL and included perceived disease severity, having a peanut 
or soy allergy, and country of origin. For both adults and children, neither 
experiencing anaphylaxis nor being prescribed an epinephrine auto-injector (EAI) 
contributed to impairment of HRQL.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, food allergy-related HRQL may be predicted to a 
greater extent in adults than in children. Allergy to certain foods may cause 
greater HRQL impairment than others. Country of origin may affect HRQL, at least 
in children. Experiencing anaphylaxis or being prescribed an EAI has no impact 
on HRQL in either adults or children.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.12582
PMID: 25627424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Climacteric. 2006 Aug;9(4):245-63. doi: 10.1080/13697130600736934.

Soy and red clover for mid-life and aging.

Geller SE(1), Studee L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, College of Medicine, University of 
Illinois, Chicago 60612, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Menopause is associated with mid-life, a time when many women 
begin to experience the signs and symptoms of aging, such as increases in blood 
pressure, changes in lipid profiles, loss of bone mass density, and diminished 
memory and cognition. Given the result of the Women's Health Initiative, many 
women no longer consider hormone therapy the first option for promoting healthy 
aging. Instead, they are turning to botanical and dietary supplement (BDS) 
products in place of hormone therapy. This paper reviews the evidence available 
for use of isoflavones from soy and red clover for the treatment or prevention 
of these health issues.
METHODS: The MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were searched for articles relating to 
soy or red clover supplement use for prevention and/or treatment of heart 
disease, hyperlipidemia, osteoporosis, mood disorders and cognitive abilities. 
Studies were included if they were randomized, controlled trials and included 
peri- or postmenopausal women.
RESULTS: Isoflavone products appear to be the most useful for improving lipid 
profiles; however, the evidence suggests that isoflavone extracts from soy are 
less effective than products containing soy protein or red clover isoflavones. 
Soy protein appears to reduce levels of total cholesterol and low density 
lipoprotein cholesterol, while red clover reduces levels of triglycerides and 
increases high density lipoprotein cholesterol. The data were somewhat less 
convincing, although promising, for increasing bone mass density and improving 
cognitive abilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Research suggests that isoflavones found in soy foods and red 
clover appear to have a small but positive health effect on plasma lipid 
concentrations, bone mass density, and cognitive abilities. Given the lack of 
serious safety concerns in the short term, it would appear that including soy 
and red clover in the diet of postmenopausal women, not withstanding a soy 
allergy, might be beneficial.

DOI: 10.1080/13697130600736934
PMCID: PMC1780039
PMID: 16857655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to report.


9. J Dairy Sci. 1990 May;73(5):1312-7. doi: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(90)78797-8.

Causes of adverse responses to soybean milk replacers in young calves.

Gardner RW(1), Shupe MG, Brimhall W, Weber DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602.

Sixty Holstein bull calves were randomly assigned to one of three treatment 
groups following an initial 3-d colostrum feeding period. They were fed either 
whole cows' milk or ethanol-extracted or hexane-extracted soy flour in milk 
replacers to 6 wk of age. These products were used to identify possible 
causative factors associated with adverse responses to soybean in milk 
replacers. Average weight gains to 6 wk of age were 13.8, 7.3, and 2.8 kg and 
mortality was 0/20, 4/20, and 9/20 for calves fed milk, ethanol-extracted soy, 
and hexane-extracted soy, respectively. Heart rates (beats/min) were increased 
by the soy flours: 99.1 (ethanol extracted) and 116.3 (hexane extracted) versus 
87.6 (milk). There was also an increased respiratory rate (breaths/min) with 
67.6 and 61.1 versus 41.6 for the same treatment groups. Intradermal wheal 
growths verified an allergic sensitivity to the soybean products. Serum 
prostaglandin F2 alpha was 22% higher in the serum of calves fed the 
hexane-extracted soy milk replacer than in the serum of calves fed milk. 
Phenolic compounds in the soybean flour were implicated as possible causative 
factors in the adverse responses to the soybean milk replacers. Ethanol 
extraction of the soy flour was more effective than hexane extraction in 
removing phenolic compounds (2.19 vs. 1.00% phenolics).

DOI: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(90)78797-8
PMID: 2365888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]